GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE OCTOBER 21 MEETING OF THE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED WHICH TRANSCENDS
ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY,
JUSTICE FOR ALL WHAT A CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH HERE
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA KEER
COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI EDWIN HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE, COUNCIL
MEMBER IGHER HERE COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN HERE COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S ABSENT COUNCIL
MEMBER KERNELL HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM HERE.
>> THE MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA FALL IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED TO HAVE
ANY COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
BELLEMARE WE HAVE THEN AN
INTRODUCTION FROM OUR GOOD
FRIENDS AT THE ANN ARBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
WELCOME.
OH THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
MEMBERS COUNCIL I MET
CARPENTERING THE CEO OF RIDE.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE BACK
BEFORE YOU.
I THINK THE LAST TIME WE WERE
HERE WAS AUGUST AND THAT WAS A
REALLY BUSY MONTH FOR US BUT
THINGS HAVE QUIETED DOWN A
LITTLE BIT AND SEEING THAT
OCTOBER ON THE FEDERAL FISCAL
YEAR OCTOBER IS THE BEGINNING
OF OUR CALENDAR I THOUGHT I'D
LOOK BACK AT FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
FOUR AND JUST SORT OF HIT SOME
OF THE KEY HIGHLIGHTS.
WE HAD A LOT OF SUCCESSES THIS
YEAR AND WANTED TO JUST SORT
OF TOUCH ON A COUPLE OF THEM
BACK IN JULY YOU MAY REMEMBER
WE HAD A SMALL CEREMONY AT OUR
GARAGE DOWN ON SOUTH INDUSTRIAL
HIGHWAY.
THE MAYOR WAS ONE OF OUR
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS AND WE WERE
GLAD TO HOST THE ADMINISTRATOR
OF THE FEDERAL TRANSIT
ADMINISTRATION CAME TO GIVE US
A TWENTY FIVE MILLION DOLLAR
GRANT FOR LOW NO EMISSIONS BUS
PROPULSION TECHNOLOGIES WE'RE
GLAD TO HAVE AS MANY OF YOU
THERE AS YOU COULD COULD BE
THERE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING BEHIND THE
SCENES TO GET READY TO
IMPLEMENT THAT GRANT.
WE'RE WAITING ON FEDERAL
OBLIGATION OF THOSE FUNDS AS
SOON AS WE GET THAT WHICH WE
EXPECT TO BE IN JANUARY, WE'RE
GOING TO GO START BUYING SOME
BUSSES, PUTTING THE PURCHASE
ORDER IN YOU MAY BE SURPRISED
TO KNOW THAT MANUFACTURING
TIMELINES ARE STILL A LITTLE
SLOW ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
OUR ELECTRIC DIESEL HYBRID
BUSSES WILL TAKE ABOUT 18
MONTHS TO GET HERE AND THE FUEL
CELL HYDROGEN BUSSES WILL TAKE
ABOUT TWENTY FOUR MONTHS.
IN THE MEANTIME, WE ARE STILL
TALKING WITH THE DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY'S HYDROGEN HUB.
THEY HAD A BIG ANNOUNCEMENT
ABOUT A HYDROGEN FACILITY AT
THE AMERICAN CENTER FOR
MOBILITY WILLOW RUN AIRPORT
WHERE A LOT OF CONTACT WITH
THEM ABOUT THE POTENTIAL TO BUY
GREEN HYDROGEN FROM THEM IN THE
FUTURE SO WE CAN NOT ONLY HAVE
A COMPLETELY ZERO EMISSIONS
PROPULSION SYSTEM BUT ALSO BY
LOCAL WHICH WOULD BE REALLY
NICE.
SO THAT WAS A BIG THING WE DID
THIS YEAR BUT IT WASN'T
ACTUALLY THE BIGGEST THING WE
WERE WORKING ON IT WAS THE
ROLLOUT OF DELIVERING OUR
PROMISED SERVICES FROM TWENTY
TWENTY TO MILEAGE.
YOU MAY RECALL WE WON AN
EXPANSION MILLAGE THE VOTERS
BACK IN AUGUST OF TWENTY TWO.
THE MONEY ARRIVED THIS YEAR AND
WE'VE BEEN ROLLING OUT THOSE
NEW SERVICES OVER THE LAST
ABOUT TEN MONTHS.
BACK IN APRIL WE INAUGURATED A
NEW EXPRESS BUS SERVICE FROM
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR TO DOWNTOWN
THE ROUTE ONE OF FOUR WASHTENAW
EXPRESS HAPPY TO REPORT IT'S
DOING VERY WELL.
RIDERSHIP IS GROWING AND IT
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE PEOPLE JUST
TRANSFERRING FROM THE OLD
SERVICES.
IT'S GENUINELY BRAND NEW
RIDERS.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
THAT.
AND THEN THIS LAST AUGUST JUST
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO WAS THE
BIG PUSH WITH THE REMAINDER
OF THOSE SERVICES WE EXPANDED
THE HOURS OF SERVICE SO WE
BEGIN EARLIER AND LATER ON ALL
DAYS AND THEN ON WEEKENDS WE
DOUBLED THE FREQUENCY
OF SERVICES THROUGHOUT THE
NETWORK AND I WAS WATCHING THE
BUSSES ON THE WEEKEND.
I THINK YOU CAN IF YOU'RE IF
YOU'RE A BUS GEEK YOU COULD
NOTICE THERE ARE MORE OF THEM
ON THE WEEKEND AND I WAS
WATCHING PEOPLE JUST GO ABOUT
THEIR BUSINESS SHOPPING,
GROCERIES, ALL THAT SORT
OF STUFF AND IT WAS WONDERFUL
TO BE ABLE TO DO AND I THINK
IT'S A GREAT EXAMPLE OF THE
ALIGNMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND
THE TRANSIT AUTHORITY THINGS
CALLED FOR IN TO ZERO AND YOUR
TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN
LEAVE HEAVILY ON
ADDITIONAL
PUBLIC TRANSIT AND WE'RE HAPPY
TO BE ABLE TO DELIVER THOSE
THINGS.
WE'RE ALSO EXCITED ABOUT THINGS
WE'RE WORKING ON IN THE COMING
YEAR.
WE'RE WORKING WITH THE CITY AND
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ABOUT A BUS LANE PROPOSAL ON
STATE STREET.
I KNOW THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION RECEIVED SOME
INFORMATION LAST WEEK.
I'M SURE IT'LL BE COMING TO
YOUR ATTENTION BEFORE LONG NEXT
DOOR IN YPSILANTI WE CONTINUE
TO WORK CLOSELY FOR THE
RESIDENTS OUT THERE.
WE'RE ABOUT HALFWAY THROUGH
NEPA PLANNING PROCESS FOR OUR
NEW BUS TERMINAL THE YPSILANTI
TRANSIT CENTER.
WE GOT THE SITE KIND OF SORTED
OUT NEXT.
WE'RE GOING TO BE WORKING IN
THE BUILDING OVER THE WINTER
NEXT SPRING WE HOPE TO SORT
OF SETTLE THE PLANNING SIDE
OF IT AND THEN GET ON WITH
FUNDRAISING AND IMPLEMENTATION
SO THAT WE CAN OPEN A BRAND NEW
SPECTACULAR BUS TERMINAL OVER
THERE FROM THE YPSILANTI
RESIDENTS AND OF COURSE ANN
ARBOR RESIDENTS WHO ARE HEADING
THAT WAY.
SO EXCITED ABOUT THAT.
AND THEN JUST TO BEGIN TO WRAP
IT UP A COUPLE OF COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENTS WE THOUGHT WERE FUN
AND WILL BE EVEN MORE FUN.
WE'RE ABLE TO BE AT THE EIGHT
TO ZERO MAYOR'S GREEN FAIR THIS
YEAR TALKING UP SOME OF THOSE
NEW PROPULSION SYSTEMS THAT ARE
COMING IN.
I'M REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
HAVING THE HYDROGEN FUEL CELL
BUSSES AT THAT FAIR IN THE
FUTURE.
I KNOW THERE'S A LOT
OF ELECTRIC AND BATTERY
ELECTRIC STUFF.
I WANT TO BE THE FIRST HYDROGEN
FUEL CELL BUS AT THE FAIR SO
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THAT.
>> AND THEN HALLOWEEN IS UPON
US.
SO I THINK JUST THIS SUNDAY
AROUND LUNCHTIME ELEVEN THIRTY
TO ONE THIRTY A LOT OF DOWNTOWN
MERCHANTS AND INSTITUTIONS ARE
GOING TO BE DOING TRICK OR
TREATING SO WE INVITE ALL
OF YOU AND EVERYONE WATCHING TO
BRING YOUR COOL LITTLE GHOULS
AND GOBLINS DOWNTOWN.
IF YOU STOP BY THE LIBRARY
DON'T FORGET TO SCAMPER ACROSS
THE STREET TO THE BLAK TRANSIT
CENTER WHERE WE'LL BE HANDING
OUT CANDY AS WELL.
SO MR. MAYOR, MEMBERS OF THE
COUNCIL, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
YOUR TIME.
IF WE EVER CAN EVER BE
OF ASSISTANCE, PLEASE DON'T
HESITATE TO GIVE ME A CALL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
HAVE A GREAT EVENING, MR.
CARPENTER.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCE WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY WHEN THIRTY SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS TOM
STALBERG, MR. STUHLBARG, EAMON
,GOOD EVENING.
>> THIS IS TOM D'ALBERT CALLING
FROM LOWER TOWN IN ANN ARBOR
LIKE DEFEATING A BEAST THIS IS
PART OF THE UDC ACCEPTING THE
HEIGHT LIMIT AND SPECIFICALLY A
LOT OF TALK ABOUT THE ELEVATING
BUILDING IN THE FLOODPLAIN
LANGUAGE BUILDINGS IN THE FLOOD
PLAIN MAY BE ELEVATED TO BRING
THE LOWEST FLOOR ABOVE THE
FLOODPLAIN AND MAY EXCEED THE
HEIGHT LIMIT BY THE DEPTH
OF THE FLOOD PROTECTION
ELEVATION.
THAT'S THE LANGUAGE PROPOSED TO
YOU?
IT'S A LITTLE UNCLEAR TO ME.
MAYBE IT'S CLEAR IT ALL YOU BUT
GIVEN THAT FEDERAL AND LOCAL
POLICY SAY NOT TO BUILD NEW
RESIDENTIAL IN THE FLOOD PLAIN
AND FOR VERY GOOD REASON MAYBE
WE COULD TIGHTEN UP THAT
LANGUAGE.
SO PLEASE HOPEFULLY YOU REVIEW
THAT MAKE SURE IT'S CLEAR THAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT EXISTING
BUILDINGS AND BRINGING THEM OUT
OF THE FLOOD PLAIN THAT THE
POST ANY NEW CONSTRUCTION AND
THE LACK THEREOF COULD ALL
CLARIFICATION AS WELL.
THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING THAT
.
I ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT THE
PROUD LONG TIME PROGRESSIVE
DEMOCRAT I WANT TO MENTION THAT
I PERSONALLY WILL BE VOTING YES
ON CNBC BECAUSE THEY ARE
PROGRESSIVE DEMOCRATIC ACTION
GRASSROOTS MOVEMENT WITH THE
GOAL OF MORE OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO VOTE AND TO HAVE
THEIR VOTE MATTER AND FOR MORE
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO RUN
FOR LOCAL AND TO REPRESENT THE
CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR THIS WE
HAVE ONLY ONE OF FIVE CITY
COUNCIL SEATS CONTESTED AND
ZERO ARE CONTESTED ON THE
NOVEMBER BALLOT.
NOTHING ISN'T WORKING IN A YEAR
WHERE WE GO TO THE POLLS WITH
FEAR SO AND MISREPRESENTATIONS
ABOUT OUR NATIONAL ELECTION WE
SADLY FACE FEAR MONGERING AND
MISREPRESENTATION ABOUT A LOCAL
ELECTION PROPOSAL FROM THOSE
WITH A STRANGLEHOLD ON POWER TO
LISTENING.
PLEASE SUPPORT GRASSROOTS
PROGRESSIVE DEMOCRACY.
PLEASE VOTE YES ON PROPOSAL B
AND D AND EVERYBODY PLEASE
VOTE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS AND
MINISTER GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME'S ANNE BANNISTER.
I'M FORMER CO-CHAIR OF THE
UNIVERSITY DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND
A FORMER WARD ONE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
I'M ALSO BEEN VOTING AS A
DEMOCRAT FOR FORTY TWO YEARS
AND I ALWAYS DO VOTE 100
PERCENT DEMOCRAT.
I'M HERE TONIGHT TO INVERT YOU
TO VOTE YES ON SEET THREE THE
RESULTS RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
LOW INCOME EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE
CONTRACTS WITH WASHTENAW COUNTY
FOR ONE HUNDRED AND TEN
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF CITY
COUNCIL IN THE COUNTY WORKING
TOGETHER TO DO GOOD WORKS FOR
THE COMMUNITY.
BUT TOO OFTEN THE INFLUENCE
OF BIG MONEY IN OUR LOCAL
ELECTIONS IS UNDERMINING THE
VOICES OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS.
IT'S TIME TO PUT THE POWER
OF OUR ELECTIONS BACK IN THE
HANDS OF THE WHOLE COMMUNITY
AND AS THE PREVIOUS CALLER
MENTIONED, SUPPORT PROPOSALS C
AND D ON YOUR NOVEMBER FIVE
BALLOT C IS ABOUT NONPARTISAN
ELECTIONS TO BRING ANN ARBOR IN
LINE WITH NINETY NINE PERCENT
OF THE OTHER MUNICIPALITIES IN
MICHIGAN WHICH WE ARE CURRENTLY
BRINGING UP THE REAR AND
PROPOSAL D ESTABLISHES A FAIR
ELECTIONS FUND THAT WILL LESSEN
THE INFLUENCE OF BIG MONEY IN
LOCAL ELECTIONS WHICH IS
UNDERMINING THE VOICES OF ANN
ARBOR RESIDENTS.
A LOT OF PEOPLE I TALKED TO
WOULD LIKE TO RUN FOR CITY
COUNCIL BUT THEY KNOW THAT THEY
DON'T HAVE A SNOWBALL'S CHANCE
IN BECAUSE THEY ARE NOT PART
OF THE DEMOCRATIC ELITE IN THIS
TOWN.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE OVER
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
PROGRESSIVE MINDED CITIZENS AND
GRASSROOTS VOLUNTEERS WHO'VE
BEEN WORKING TIRELESSLY ALL
SUMMER TO SHARE REASONS TO VOTE
YES FOR PROPOSAL C AND D.
IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADY PLEASE
READ THE LETTERS WRITTEN TO
NEIGHBORS DEBUNKING THE MYTHS
ON THE DARK MONEY MAILER THAT
YOU MAY HAVE RECEIVED FROM
LANSING A GUY NAMED JOE BESANKO
AND READ THE LETTERS FROM
NEIGHBORS IN THE DOWNTOWN LOHRI
SAGINAW DAN RUBINSTEIN, BRUCE
LAIDLAW.
I ALSO REFER YOU TO BLOGS FROM
ELIZABETH NELSON AND OTHERS AND
LISTEN TO SPEECHES AT PUBLIC
MEETINGS BY JOHN GODFREY VISIT
AND ARBOR PERHAPS DOT COM AND
ANN ARBOR PROPP DOTCOM TO QUOTE
FROM LORI SIGNALS LETTER I
BELIEVE I'M SEEING AN
ESTABLISHED CULTURE OF CRONYISM
IN ANN ARBOR THAT REFLECTS THE
PATTERNS OF NATIONAL POLITICS.
I SEE A NARROW GATEWAY TO CIVIC
ENGAGEMENT BECAUSE A PERSON
MUST HAVE SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL
RESOURCES TO CONSIDER A
CAMPAIGN TO RUN FOR A CITY
OFFICE IN ANN ARBOR.
>> SHE QUOTES ELIZABETH WARREN
WHICH SAYS THAT GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING AND HELLO MR. HONY
TO CONTINUE WITH THE LAST
SPEAKER I MET SENATOR WARREN
LAST WEEK AND ONE OF HER
TALKING POINTS WAS THREE
MILLION NEW HOUSES.
SO I HOPE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE
TO GET SOME FEDERAL PROGRAMS
STARTED SO THAT WE CAN MEET
SOME OF OUR HOUSING GOALS.
ANOTHER THING IS THAT I'VE
TRIED TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
COME TO COUNCIL AND THEY ARE
AFRAID AND IT'S REALLY A SHAME
BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE JUST NOT
TREATED VERY WELL.
I'M STANDING UP HERE AND PEOPLE
ARE TALKING TO EACH OTHER.
I MEAN I KNOW I ALWAYS TALK
ABOUT SAFETY AND IT'S BORING
BUT YOU KNOW, A LITTLE DECORUM
WOULD BE GOOD TONIGHT I WANT TO
TALK ABOUT ONE EXCEPTION TO THE
INTERNATIONAL FIRE
CODE IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN WE
ADOPTED THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE
CODE BUT WE HAVE AN AMENDMENT
ON THE AGENDA TO GO AGAINST THE
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE AND I
JUST WANT TO READ A COUPLE
OF QUOTES BECAUSE I'M REALLY
CONFUSED.
WE ARE CONTINUALLY FINDING
THERE IS NOT ENOUGH ROAD WITH
ESPECIALLY WITHIN THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY TO ALLOW
FOR THESE TWENTY SIX FEET ALONG
WITH PROTECTED BIKE LANES.
SO SHOULD WE WIDEN OUR ROADS,
FIGURE OUT WHAT WE CAN DO TO
GET THE SAVE TWENTY SIX FEET?
NO WE SHOULD TALK TO PEOPLE WHO
KNOW NOTHING ABOUT THIS TOPIC
SUCH AS THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY CITY AND
OUR TRANSPORTATION UNIT AND THE
CITY OF AN URBAN PLANNING UNIT
BECAUSE THEY ARE IN LINE THAT
REMOVING SECTION D ONE OF FIVE
POINT TWO WILL ADDRESS THIS
CONFLICT POINT.
WHY IN THE WORLD DO WE WANT TO
ADDRESS A CONFLICT POINT?
LET'S FIX THE SOLUTION WE ARE
TRADING OFF NOT DOING ANYTHING
WITH THE POSSIBILITY THAT WE
ARE GOING TO HAVE PEOPLE BURNED
IN TALL BUILDINGS.
THIS IS JUST CRAZY.
OK, SO THE OTHER THING I WANTED
TO TALK ABOUT WAS DC THREE LOOK
TO MICHIGAN.
WE'RE CLOSING SOME STREETS.
I JUST GET EXCITED WHEN I READ
ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND I'M ON THE
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE
LEAGUE.
THEY DO THINGS RIGHT WHETHER
IT'S THE TWENTY THIRTY FOUR
PLAN OR THE TWENTY FIFTY PLAN
AND I'M JUST GOING TO READ ONE
SENTENCE THAT THAT GIVES YOU A
HINT AT HOW EFFECTIVE THEY ARE.
ONE OF THEIR GOALS IS TO INFUSE
VALUE DRIVEN AND EVIDENCE BASED
DECISION MAKING INTO OUR
UNIVERSITIES UNIT FUNCTIONS AND
PRACTICES
TO DRIVE POSITIVE
CHANGE AND STRENGTHEN OUR
CULTURE AND CLIMATE.
MAYBE CITY COUNCIL COULD ADOPT
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CARL
SUKANYA.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS CARL SIC AND I'M A
VETERAN OF THIRTY FIVE YEARS IN
EDUCATION MOST RECENTLY AS THE
PRINCIPAL OF A HIGH SCHOOL IN A
YOUTH PRISON IN DETROIT.
BUT I'M HERE TODAY THIS EVENING
IN MY CAPACITY AS THE FOUNDER
AND ARTISTIC DIRECTOR OF A
LOCAL THEATER COMPANY CALLED
BREVITY'S SHAKESPEARE WE ARE
FACILITATING A COMMUNITY
PROJECT IN THE SPRING OF TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE THAT I'M HOPING IN
OUR CITY COUNCIL WILL CONSIDER
PARTICIPATING IN NOT
NECESSARILY AS A BODY BUT AS A
CONTRIBUTOR TO CERTAIN MEMBERS
OF THE GROUP.
SO WE EXIST TO PROMOTE
COMMUNITY BY PROMOTING EMPATHY
BECAUSE THE BEAUTY, THE POWER,
THE FUN OF SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS
ARE IN THE UNIVERSALITY
OF HUMAN EXPERIENCE.
>> THEY REPRESENT EVERYONE CAN
RECOGNIZE THEMSELVES IN IT IF
THEY CAN GET BACK GET PAST THE
BARRIER OF THE FREQUENT
INCOMPREHENSIBILITY
SHAKESPEARE'S LANGUAGE WHEN I'M
WATCHING SHAKESPEARE AND I'M A
LOVER OF IT, I OFTEN FIND
MYSELF GOING WHAT DOES HE SAY?
WHO IS HE TALKING TO?
WHAT AND WHEN I'M READING IT
THAT HAPPENS ALL THE TIME.
NOW WE WANT TO READ SHAKESPEARE
TO EVERY MEMBER OF THE
COMMUNITY AND WE DO THAT IN TWO
WAYS.
FIRST, BY DISTILLING THE PLACE
WE'RE CALLED BREVETTI
SHAKESPEARE BECAUSE OUR PLAY IS
RUN 70 TO 90 MINUTES WITH SOME
EXCEPTIONS.
I'LL GET TO ONE OF THEM IN A
MINUTE BECAUSE THAT'S THE ONE
THAT PERTAINS TO YOU.
WE ALSO MAKE SURE THAT THE
COMMUNITY IS APPROPRIATELY
REPRESENTED ON STAGE.
WE ALWAYS HAVE A MULTIRACIAL
CAST AND WHAT I MEAN BY THAT IS
THERE ARE NEVER MORE THAN 50
PERCENT OF THE PEOPLE ON STAGE
WHO ARE PINK LIKE ME.
THAT'S HOW IT'S ALWAYS BEEN IN
OUR FOUR PRODUCTIONS AND THAT'S
HOW IT WILL ALWAYS BE IN
BREVITY SHAKESPEARE.
SO THOSE ARE JUST A COUPLE
OF THE WAYS WE INTEND TO REACH
EVERYBODY THROUGH THE PLAYS NOW
WE'VE DONE FOUR PRODUCTIONS.
OUR FIRST WAS PRE PANDEMIC.
IT FEATURED COUNCILMAN
CHRISTOPHER WATSON AS ORWICK
AND WE DID THREE PRODUCTIONS IN
THE PAST YEAR AND WE PLAN THREE
FOR THE NEXT YEAR AND FOR THE
YEARS IN PERPETUITY AFTER NEXT
YEAR WE'LL STAGE TWO
PRODUCTIONS BUT WE'RE GOING TO
DO A COMMUNITY PROJECT IN THE
SPRING AND THIS IS OUR PLAN FOR
EACH YEAR TWO PRODUCTIONS AND
ONE COMMUNITY PROJECT I HAVE
HERE OUR SHORTEST SCRIPT.
THIS IS JULIUS CAESAR.
IT'S A TWENTY SIX PAGE SCRIPT
WHICH MEANS IT'S ABOUT A HALF
AN HOUR LONG AND IT'S EIGHT
CHARACTERS IN MARCH WHICH IS NO
COINCIDENCE IF YOU KNOW JULIUS
CAESAR ALL AROUND THE IDES
OF MARCH WE'LL HAVE FOUR TO SIX
DIFFERENT COMMUNITY GROUPS
HOLDING PERSONAL FRIENDS AND
FAMILY READINGS OF THE PLAY.
I'VE SPOKEN WITH A HOUSE
OF WORSHIP WITH PERFORM WITH A
VISUAL ARTS GROUP, AN
ALTERNATIVE HIGH SCHOOL PUBLIC
RADIO STATION, A SMALL BUSINESS
AND ADVOCACY GROUP.
THE IDEA IS TO HAVE GROUPS THAT
ARE NOT THEATER GROUPS LOOK AT
THE PLAY AND THEN GATHER A
COUPLE OF WEEKS LATER TO TALK
ABOUT KEY THEMES.
DOES THE ENDS JUSTIFY THE
MEANS?
WHAT DOES THIS CITY BUT ITS
PEOPLE WHAT IS FAIR?
WHAT IS HONOR?
MY HOPE IS THAT CITY COUNCIL
WILL CONSIDER PARTICIPATING AS
ONE OF THOSE GROUPS.
I WILL LEAVE YOU TWO COPIES
OF THE SCRIPT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS WHIPSNADE
CARACO
MR. WHO YOU CAN MEET
YOUR HELLO.
>> HELLO EVERYONE.
THIS IS A BY PRODUCT YOU AND I
AM SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF A
PEOPLE NONPROFIT CALLED FEEDBAG
AND WE ARE FOUNDATION INSPIRED
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION.
I WANTED TO JOIN HERE TODAY.
DO YOU SHARE MY GRATITUDE FOR
TRAVIS FOR DENHA AND AGAIN TO
MEMBER GARVEY WHO SUPPORTED AN
EVENT WE JUST RAN IN THE CITY
AT ANOTHER DISTRICT LATELY
RIDER IT FIRST FOUNDATION
FAILED CHILDREN STORYTELLING
EVENT IN MICHIGAN AND ONLY THE
SECOND IN THE WHOLE COUNTRY
OF THIS KIND AND WE ARE VERY
PROUD TO BRING IT TO MICHIGAN
AND HAVE IT BE THE CENTER
OF OUR WORK AND THE ONLY THING
I WOULD SHARE IS THAT 70
PERCENT OF STUDENTS AND YOUNG
ADULT LITERATURE IN THE COUNTRY
STILL HAVE YOU CHARACTERS THAT
ARE EITHER RIGHT OR ANIMALS
ONLY 10 PERCENT FIVE BOOKS
THROUGH 12 ARE WRITTEN BY
AUTHORS OF COLOR AND
REPRESENTATION.
TO THAT END DOES MATTERS TO
KIDS WHO ARE FROM IMMIGRANT
COMMUNITIES TO PEOPLE WHO ARE
BIPOLAR WHO DO NOT SEE
THEMSELVES REFLECTED ANYWHERE
IN THEIR CLASSROOM OR THEIR
WRITING THAT THEY ARE SURE THAT
THAT IS SHOWCASED IN THEIR
CLASSROOMS AND WE HOPE TO
BRIDGE THAT GAP WHICH EXISTS
RIGHT NOW IN A VERY
SYSTEMICALLY.
MY HOPE IS THAT THE CITY CAN
HELP US BRING BACK THAT KIND
OF EVENT THAT WE JUST RAN AND
SUPPORT US ALSO TO JUST GET THE
WORD OUT AS A NEW GRASSROOTS
ORGANIZATION I REPRESENT A
COMMUNITY THAT IS ONE OF THE
FASTEST GROWING ETHNICITIES IN
THE COUNTRY AND ALSO THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE MANY OF THEM ALSO THE
VOTERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO GET
INVOLVED.
SO IT REALLY DOES MATTER THE TO
BE ABLE TO SEE PEOPLE WHO ARE
ABLE TO LEAD EFFORTS LIKE THAT
AND AND YOU KNOW, MOST PEOPLE
DON'T REALIZE IT BUT I WANT US
TO BE A CITY THAT CAN GET AWAY
FROM INCIDENTALS REPRESENTATION
TODAY TO HEAR THAT PRESENTATION
IN A MORE BROAD BASED MANNER.
AND I'M REALLY HOPING FOR YOUR
SUPPORT IN THIS AS WE GROW.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHLEEN
MUSAC SLOWER.
HI.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS KATHLEEN BOZAK AND I
HI.
RESIDE IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MY NAME IS KATHLEEN BOZAK AND I
WARD FOUR.
RESIDE IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
I APPRECIATE THIS OPPORTUNITY
WARD FOUR.
TO SPEAK BEFORE YOU REGARDING
I APPRECIATE THIS OPPORTUNITY
ACCESSIBLE PARKING HERE AT CITY
TO SPEAK BEFORE YOU REGARDING
.
ACCESSIBLE PARKING HERE AT CITY
I BROUGHT THIS CONCERN TO THE
.
CITY THROUGH SEVERAL DIFFERENT
I BROUGHT THIS CONCERN TO THE
CHANNELS AND STILL THE PROBLEM
CITY THROUGH SEVERAL DIFFERENT
PERSISTS.
CHANNELS AND STILL THE PROBLEM
CURRENTLY THERE ARE TWO VANS
PERSISTS.
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPOTS ALONG
CURRENTLY THERE ARE TWO VANS
WITH REGULAR AND EV CHARGING
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPOTS ALONG
PARKING SPOTS IN THE SMALL
WITH REGULAR AND EV CHARGING
PARKING LOT THAT EXISTS BEHIND
PARKING SPOTS IN THE SMALL
CITY HALL.
PARKING LOT THAT EXISTS BEHIND
HOWEVER, THOSE SPOTS ARE NOT
CITY HALL.
WELL MARKED IF AT ALL.
HOWEVER, THOSE SPOTS ARE NOT
THIS CREATES OPPORTUNITIES FOR
WELL MARKED IF AT ALL.
VEHICLES TO PARK IN THE OPEN
THIS CREATES OPPORTUNITIES FOR
SPACE BETWEEN THE TWO
VEHICLES TO PARK IN THE OPEN
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPOTS
SPACE BETWEEN THE TWO
CREATING PROBLEMS FOR THOSE
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPOTS
OF US WHO NEED TO DEPLOY A
CREATING PROBLEMS FOR THOSE
WHEELCHAIR RAMP TO ENTER AND
OF US WHO NEED TO DEPLOY A
EXIT OUR VEHICLE TO SAY THAT
WHEELCHAIR RAMP TO ENTER AND
THIS IS FRUSTRATING AND
EXIT OUR VEHICLE TO SAY THAT
PROBLEMATIC IS AN
THIS IS FRUSTRATING AND
UNDERSTATEMENT.
PROBLEMATIC IS AN
THERE HAVE BEEN MULTIPLE TIMES
UNDERSTATEMENT.
I HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO EVEN USE
THERE HAVE BEEN MULTIPLE TIMES
AN ACCESSIBLE SPOT BECAUSE THE
I HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO EVEN USE
VEHICLE HAS NOT LEFT ENOUGH
AN ACCESSIBLE SPOT BECAUSE THE
ROOM FOR ME TO PLAY MY RAMP.
VEHICLE HAS NOT LEFT ENOUGH
SO I HAVE TO FIND OTHER PARKING
ROOM FOR ME TO PLAY MY RAMP.
.
SO I HAVE TO FIND OTHER PARKING
THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN OTHER
.
MULTIPLE TIMES WHERE I HAVE
THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN OTHER
PARKED AND UPON RETURNING TO MY
MULTIPLE TIMES WHERE I HAVE
VEHICLE FOUND MY SIDE DOOR
PARKED AND UPON RETURNING TO MY
BLOCKED AND NOT BEING ABLE TO
VEHICLE FOUND MY SIDE DOOR
DEPLOY MY RAMP NOW IN MY YOUTH
BLOCKED AND NOT BEING ABLE TO
WHEN I WAS ABLE BODIED THERE
DEPLOY MY RAMP NOW IN MY YOUTH
WERE MULTIPLE WAYS TO ENTER MY
WHEN I WAS ABLE BODIED THERE
CAR WHEN OTHERS PARKED TOO
WERE MULTIPLE WAYS TO ENTER MY
CLOSE I COULD GO THROUGH THE
CAR WHEN OTHERS PARKED TOO
PASSENGER DOOR.
CLOSE I COULD GO THROUGH THE
I'VE EVEN CRAWLED THROUGH THE
PASSENGER DOOR.
HATCHBACK BUT SADLY THOSE
I'VE EVEN CRAWLED THROUGH THE
OPTIONS ARE NOT AVAILABLE TO ME
HATCHBACK BUT SADLY THOSE
AND OTHERS WHO ARE LIKE ME WHO
OPTIONS ARE NOT AVAILABLE TO ME
HAVE MOBILITY ISSUES.
AND OTHERS WHO ARE LIKE ME WHO
A PERSONAL STORY LAST DECEMBER
HAVE MOBILITY ISSUES.
UPON LEAVING A SEATTLE CITY
A PERSONAL STORY LAST DECEMBER
COUNCIL MEETING THERE WAS A
UPON LEAVING A SEATTLE CITY
VEHICLE PARKED DIRECTLY NEXT TO
COUNCIL MEETING THERE WAS A
MINE.
VEHICLE PARKED DIRECTLY NEXT TO
IT WAS VERY COLD, VERY
MINE.
BLUSTERY, LOTS AND LOTS OF SNOW
IT WAS VERY COLD, VERY
AND I DID THE ONLY THING I
BLUSTERY, LOTS AND LOTS OF SNOW
COULD THINK TO DO.
AND I DID THE ONLY THING I
>> I CALLED THE NON-EMERGENCY
COULD THINK TO DO.
POLICE NUMBER AND ASK FOR HELP
>> I CALLED THE NON-EMERGENCY
.
POLICE NUMBER AND ASK FOR HELP
ABOUT A HALF HOUR LATER A SQUAD
.
CAR CAME THROUGH THE PARKING
ABOUT A HALF HOUR LATER A SQUAD
LOT AND I ROLLED ON OVER AND
CAR CAME THROUGH THE PARKING
I'M LIKE CAN YOU HELP ME?
LOT AND I ROLLED ON OVER AND
HE WASN'T AWARE OF THE
I'M LIKE CAN YOU HELP ME?
SITUATION BUT HE WAS VERY KIND
HE WASN'T AWARE OF THE
AND HE DID MOVE MY VEHICLE AND
SITUATION BUT HE WAS VERY KIND
BACKED IT UP SO THAT I COULD
AND HE DID MOVE MY VEHICLE AND
DEPLOY MY RAMP AND GET INTO MY
BACKED IT UP SO THAT I COULD
VEHICLE.
DEPLOY MY RAMP AND GET INTO MY
>> I WAS EXTREMELY GRATEFUL TO
VEHICLE.
ME BEING ABLE TO ACCESS THE
>> I WAS EXTREMELY GRATEFUL TO
CITY CLERK'S OFFICE, COME TO A
ME BEING ABLE TO ACCESS THE
CITY COUNCIL MEETING OR CONDUCT
CITY CLERK'S OFFICE, COME TO A
OTHER BUSINESS AT CITY HALL IS
CITY COUNCIL MEETING OR CONDUCT
IMPORTANT FOR ALL OF US.
OTHER BUSINESS AT CITY HALL IS
IT SEEMS TO ME THAT BY HAVING
IMPORTANT FOR ALL OF US.
PROPERLY MARKED ACCESSIBLE
IT SEEMS TO ME THAT BY HAVING
PARKING SPOTS THE CITY CAN
PROPERLY MARKED ACCESSIBLE
AVOID PUTTING ITS DISABLED
PARKING SPOTS THE CITY CAN
CITIZENS THROUGH UNNECESSARY
AVOID PUTTING ITS DISABLED
HARDSHIP.
CITIZENS THROUGH UNNECESSARY
>> THANK YOU FOR LISTENING.
HARDSHIP.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR LISTENING.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RALPH
THANK YOU.
MCKEAG
.
>> GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
A REAL KEY WORD FIVE PROPOSAL C
AND D PART TWO.
LET'S START WITH THIS.
I HAD A CHAT WITH ONE OF THE
PUBLIC LEADERS OF THE OPPONENTS
RECENTLY.
HE SAID HE DIDN'T BELIEVE THE
PROPONENTS WERE CONSERVATIVES
OR THAT THE PROPOSALS WERE A
BARRIER TO DIVERSE CANDIDATES.
HE'S NOT GOING TO SAY THAT
PUBLICLY THOUGH.
TOO MUCH TEAM LOYALTY PERHAPS
HE COMES DOWN TO THIS UNDER
STATE LAW, THE WINNOWING DOWN
THAT CRITICS SAY THEY WANT HAS
TO BE IN A LOW TURNOUT AUGUST
ELECTION.
BUT INCREASE TURNOUT ONLY
HAPPENS IN NOVEMBER.
THAT'S AN EASY CHOICE AND THE
CURRENT PRIMARY ISN'T A
WINNOWING DOWN ANYWAY BECAUSE
PLURALITY WINNERS CAN HAPPEN IN
THAT SYSTEM TOO.
SO THAT ARGUMENT MAKES SENSE
AND THE ARGUMENT THAT
NONPARTIZAN ELECTIONS WOULD
GIVE YOU MUCH POWER TO THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS KIND
OF AMUSING.
YOU CONTROL THE PARTY AND IT'S
TRYING TO DEFEAT THIS REFORM.
DON'T GIVE US TOO MUCH POWER.
YOU SAY WE MIGHT ABUSE IT.
SURE.
LIKE NOW NOW TO D MORE SCARE
TACTICS.
NEW CANDIDATES MIGHT MISUSE
FUNDS.
YOU MIGHT TOO.
THAT'S WHAT STATE RULES APPLY
TO IF I INSINUATE THAT YOU
WOULD DO THAT YOU'D GO
BALLISTIC.
BUT IT'S OK FOR YOU TO SAY
OTHERS MIGHT IT'S EVEN OK FOR
YOU TO HAVE A KNOWN DARK MONEY
OPERATIVE FUND MAILERS TRYING
TO SAY THIS COULD BE JUST LIKE
NEW YORK MAYOR ERIC ADAMS.
THAT'S MUDSLINGING.
NO, THAT'S NOT OK.
YOU SAY THERE COULD BE MULTIPLE
FIFTY DOLLAR DONATIONS.
IT WOULD HAVE TO BE MATCHED NO
,THE AMENDMENT SAYS FIFTY
BUCKS IN THE AGGREGATE FIFTY
TOTAL YOU SAY AMBIGUOUS NO.
THE CARDINAL RULE OF STATUTORY
INTERPRETATION IS TO ENSURE
THAT ALL THE WORDS MEAN
SOMETHING BUT THAT
INTERPRETATION WOULD READ THE
PHRASE IN THE AGGREGATE RIGHT
OUT OF THE AMENDMENT THIS ISSUE
AND SEVERAL OTHERS INCLUDING NO
THRESHOLD FOR MATCHES WERE
RAISED IN A LETTER TO AN
OPPOSITION LAWYER SENT TO THE
STATE AG THE AG DIDN'T RESPOND
TO ANY OF THAT BECAUSE PROBABLY
DOESN'T LEAVE ANY OF THOSE
THINGS ARE PROBLEMS THE ONLY
ISSUE THAT THAT WAS RAISED WAS
IT ONLY OF THE COUNCIL CAN
DIRECT FUNDS.
NO BALLOT PROPOSAL CAN DO THAT
.
THIS VIEW IS REFUTED IN A MEMO
FROM PROPONENTS COUNSEL THE
BEST ARGUMENT EXISTS UNDER THE
AG'S VIEW BALLOT PROPOSALS
CAN'T DIRECT SPENDING FOR
ANYTHING WITHOUT A SPECIFIC
MILLAGE SO EVEN A PROPOSAL TO
SAY FIX A BRIDGE THAT THE
COUNCIL WOULDN'T APPROPRIATE
FUNDS FOR THAT COULDN'T BE
DIRECTED BY BY BILL PROPOSAL
THAT MAKES NO SENSE UNDER THE
MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION.
FINALLY YOU RAISE THE SPECTER
OF MULTIPLE LAWSUITS.
THE ONLY LIKELY PLAINTIFFS
CANDIDATES WHO WERE DENIED
FUNDS UNDER RESTRICTIONS IN THE
ENABLING ORDINANCE.
THEY HAVE TO FIND AND PAY A
LAWYER FOR A CASE INVOLVING
SMALL DOLLARS AND LITTLE IF ANY
MONEY DAMAGES.
GOOD LUCK WITH THAT.
IF A LAWSUIT HAPPENS, IT LIKELY
WOULD RAISE EVERY CLAIM
POSSIBLE IN ONE SUIT LIKELY
DEFENDED BY IN-HOUSE COUNSEL
AFTER THAT SUIT IF THE
REMAINING PROBLEMS PUT THE
ENABLING ORDINANCE ON THE
BALLOT AND RESOLVE THE ISSUE
THAT WAY.
THIS IS NOT SOME GIANT PROBLEM
AND I THINK THIS IS JUST A
PATTERN OF SCARE TACTICS AND
EXAGGERATIONS AND MAKING BIG
PROBLEMS OUT OF THE THINGS THAT
REALLY ARE NOT THAT DIFFICULT
IF WE WOULD ACTUALLY WORK
TOGETHER ON GETTING A GOOD
ENABLING ORDINANCE THIS COULD
BE A GOOD PROPOSAL.
I JUST ASK FOR SOME
RESPONSIBILITY AND SOME
THOUGHTFULNESS HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
WHENEVER FORMER COUNCIL MEMBERS
OF CHRISTMAS PAST COME FOR
PUBLIC COMMENTS I OFTEN WONDER
IF I'LL JOIN YOU ONCE I'M OFF
OF COUNCIL OR PERHAPS I'LL
DEDICATE MORE TIME TO ACTUALLY
SOLVING PROBLEMS IN OUR
COMMUNITY BECAUSE WHEN I HEAR
OVER AND OVER AGAIN CONSPIRACY
THEORIES AND SUGGESTIONS THAT
RESIDENTS ARE TOO AFRAID TO
COME TO COUNCIL, I THINK IT
DENIES THE ACTUAL REALITY.
WE HAD OVER 100 PUBLIC COMMENTS
DURING THE CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
THIS CHAMBER WAS PACKED WITH
OVERFLOW PEOPLE SHOW UP.
WE INVITE THEM TO SHOW UP.
WE APPRECIATE WHEN THEY SHOW UP
WITH FOOD WHICH IS WONDERFUL.
AS FOR THE LIES ABOUT DARK
MONEY UNDERWRITING LOCAL
POLITICS, LET ME SHARE THE
NAMES OF PACS THAT SUPPORTED MY
OWN ELECTION NEW AMERICAN
LEADERS, A GROUP THAT PROVIDES
CAMPAIGN ASSISTANCE TO FIRST
AND SECOND GENERATION
AMERICANS.
THIS IS THIS INCLUDED COUNTY
COMMISSIONER YOUSEF RAHBI,
SENATOR STEPHANIE CHANG AND
CONGRESSWOMAN RASHID OTTERLOO
SOUTHPARK FOUNDED BY SIEDE WHO
ALSO ENDORSED MY CAMPAIGN
MICHIGAN ASIAN-AMERICAN
PROGRESSIVES AND LABOR
ORGANIZATIONS THAT GAVE ME FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS SIGNS ARE ABOUT
FIVE DOLLARS EACH AND THREE
BURLY GUYS WHO SQUEEZED INTO MY
CAMPAIGN SHIRTS TO DORNOCH.
IF YOU TELL ME THAT THIS IS
DARK MONEY, DARK INFLUENCE
YOU'RE TELLING ME YOU'RE ANTI
LABOR, YOU'RE ANTI PACS AND
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE EMILY'S
LIST, ALL THESE ORGANIZATIONS
THAT SOLICIT MORE PARTICIPATION
FROM UNDERREPRESENTED
MINORITIES, TEA PARTICIPATE IN
LOCAL POLITICS, LOCAL POLITICS
AND AND POLITICS AT HIGHER
LEVELS.
>> THE PROPOSITIONS WE HAVE IN
FRONT OF US IN OUR COMMUNITY
ARE BEING OFFERED AS SOLUTIONS
TO LONGSTANDING ISSUES.
YES, WE WANT MORE PARTICIPATION
IN OUR LOCAL POLITICS BUT THESE
BALLOTS AS WRITTEN DO NOT FIX
THESE ISSUES.
WE KNOW WHAT GET OUT THE VOTE
LOOKS LIKE.
WE KNOW WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
BECAUSE WE ARE IN TWENTY TWO
PEOPLE CAME OUT IN RECORD
NUMBERS FOR WHAT ISSUES ARE
IMPORTANT TO THEM FOR
CANDIDATES WHO SPOKE TO THEIR
VALUES THERE IS NO GREAT
MYSTERY TO LOCAL POLITICS.
>> I WILL JOIN THESE FOLKS ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE TABLE
NEXT MONTH BUT I DON'T THINK
I'LL TRAFFIC CONSPIRACY
THEORIES.
I THINK WE'LL STICK TO THE
ISSUES AND TO THE AGENDA.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR WATSON.
WELL, ONE OF THE JOYS OF HAVING
GROWN UP IN THIS TOWN IS
SOMETIMES YOU LOOK AT A COUNCIL
AGENDA AND YOU SEE A COMMITTEE
THAT WAS YOUR HIGH SCHOOL
TEACHER.
I SWEAR THERE WAS NO INSIDE JOB
.
MR SICANGU JUST HAPPENED TO
COME OUT OF HIS OWN VOLITION
AND I DO HEED HIS WORDS ABOUT
EMPATHY AND I THINK WE WOULD
ALL BE WE WOULD ALL BE WELL
ADVISED TO TO TRY TO USE A BIT
OF THAT.
AND FOR THOSE WHO WANT TO TALK
ABOUT INVOLVING A DIVERSE SET
OF LEADERS, ADD MORE YOU KNOW,
MINORITY REPRESENTATION ON
COUNCIL WHO WANT TO LOWER THE
BARRIERS TO ENTRY.
I'D BE HAPPY TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION WITH YOU ABOUT
THAT WHEN I WAS IN COLLEGE I
WORKED FOR A GROUP CALLED
PROGRESSIVE PIPELINE WHICH WE
AND WE FOUND THE BARRIER WAS
THAT PEOPLE HAD TO TAKE UNPAID
INTERNSHIPS TO GET INVOLVED IN
POLITICS AND WE CREATED A
STUDENT RUN POLITICAL ACTION
COMMITTEE TO FUND PEOPLE HAVING
THOSE INTERNSHIPS.
AND WHILE I WAS A RECRUITMENT
DIRECTOR FOR THAT FELLOWSHIP, I
EXPANDED THE RECRUITMENT TO
STATE SCHOOLS TO
AFRICAN-AMERICANS PEOPLE
OF COLOR AND I INCREASED THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAD TAKEN
SUBSIDIZED LUNCH AND WERE THEN
ELIGIBLE TO WORK ON CAMPAIGNS
AND RECEIVE FUNDING.
SO I APPRECIATE THE CONCERN FOR
DIVERSITY ON COUNCIL AND I HOPE
YOU GUYS WILL TALK TO ME AFTER
THE ELECTION.
>> YOU KNOW, IN A NEW GALLUP
PART BRIDEWELL OFFICIALLY OPEN
WITH A RIBBON CUTTING CEREMONY
ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24TH AT
FOUR THIRTY PM WEATHER
PERMITTING YOU'RE INVITED TO A
CEREMONY THAT WILL INCLUDE A
PROGRAM WITH CITY
REPRESENTATIVES, PROJECT
PARTNERS AND OTHER SPECIAL
GUESTS.
THE PROJECT WAS MADE POSSIBLE
THROUGH FUNDING FROM THE
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN AND PART
MAINTENANCE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS MILEAGES WITH
VALUABLE INPUT FROM LOCAL
RESIDENTS REGARDING THE DESIGN
PROCESS WE LOOK FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING THIS IMPORTANT
COMMUNITY ASSET AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO SEEING YOU THIS
THURSDAY AT FOUR THIRTY PM
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I WASN'T PLANNING ON SPEAKING
ON PROPOSALS C AND AGAIN
TONIGHT BUT AS THIS IS THE LAST
COUNCIL MEETING BEFORE THE
ELECTION AND SOME OF THE
PROPONENTS, THE FORMER COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND LANDLORDS AND
OTHERS WHO ARE SUPPORTING THIS
CAME OUT TONIGHT TO DISCUSS THE
PROPOSALS.
I WANT TO RESPOND TO SOME
OF THE THE THINGS THAT WERE
BROUGHT UP AND FRANKLY SOME
OF THE MISINFORMATION THAT I
BELIEVE IS BEING PERPETUATED BY
PROPONENTS OF PROPOSAL C AND D
YOU KNOW, RIGHT OFF THE BAT
PROPOSAL IS DECEPTIVE TO
VOTERS.
THE VERY FIRST WORDS OF THE
CHARTER AMENDMENT ELIMINATE A
CITY PRIMARY.
NOWHERE DO DOES THAT APPEAR ON
THE BALLOT LANGUAGE THAT WAS
SUBMITTED BY THE PROPONENTS.
SO I HOPE THAT ALL VOTERS WHO
ARE LISTENING AND WHO ARE WHO
ARE PAYING ATTENTION TO THIS
ELECTION DO THEIR HOMEWORK
BECAUSE THE BALLOT PROPOSAL IS
MUCH DEEPER THAN WHAT WAS PUT
FORWARD IN THE LANGUAGE OF THE
PROPOSAL ITSELF.
I'M ALSO LOOKING AT THE SLOGANS
THAT ARE PUT OUT ON ALL OF THE
GLOSSY STICKERS AND SIGNS THAT
ARE PLASTERED ALL OVER DOWNTOWN
.
ONE OF THEM FOR PROPOSAL C IS
MORE RESIDENT VOICES NOT
INSIDER CHOICES.
ANOTHER IS MORE STUDENT VOICES,
NOT INSIDER CHOICES.
I WILL NOTE THAT ALL OF THE
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS THAT HAVE
COME OUT IN IN THIS
CONVERSATION HAVE ENDORSED A NO
VOTE POSITION ON THIS ON
PROPOSAL C AND I WILL ALSO NOTE
THAT EXACTLY WHAT ONE OF THE
COMMENTERS POINTED OUT WHICH IS
THAT PROPOSAL C BY ELIMINATING
A PRIMARY WILL MOVE OUR
ELECTIONS TO A SCHOOL BOARD
SCHOOL BOARD STYLE FREE FOR
ALLS IN NOVEMBER WHERE THE
LOCAL DEMOCRATIC ESTABLISHMENT,
YOUR INSIDERS WOULD HAVE ALMOST
COMPLETE CONTROL OVER THE DE
FACTO NOMINEE RATHER THAN
ENTRUSTING VOTERS WITH THAT
CHOICE, WE ARE ASKING TO MOVE
THAT PROCESS INTO ONE OF THE
SUNDAY AFTERNOON MEETINGS IN A
ROOM OF ABOUT TWO HUNDRED
PEOPLE WHO CAN MAKE IT OUT IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE SUMMER
BECAUSE THEIR PARTIZANS AND
STRONG DEMOCRATS WHO ARE IN
THAT ROOM AND IT'S CONCERNING
TO ME THE LEVEL
OF MISINFORMATION THERE THAT'S
GOING AROUND BECAUSE THIS IS
LITERALLY THE PROCESS BY WHICH
MANY PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED THAT
ROTIMI NOODLES WERE USED TO
ENDORSE THE CANDIDATES FOR
SCHOOL BOARD NOTING THAT THE
LAST TWENTY NINE OF THIRTY
CANDIDATES WHO GOT ELECTED TO
THE SCHOOL BOARD RECEIVED THAT
ENDORSEMENT IN THAT ROOM RATHER
THAN ENTRUSTING VOTERS WITH
THAT DECISION FINALLY ON
PROPOSAL THE YOU KNOW THERE'S
SO MUCH MISINFORMATION FIRST
OF ALL THE SCARE TACTICS AROUND
DARK MONEY THIS DOES ABSOLUTELY
NOTHING ABOUT DARK MONEY IT
CAN'T.
SO THE IDEA THOUGH IS FIGHT
OUTSIDE MONEY.
THE REALITY IS THE PROPONENTS
LEFT A CARVE OUT FOR OUTSIDE
LANDLORDS TO CONTRIBUTE TO
CAMPAIGNS AND GET MATCHING
FUNDS CONTRIBUTED TO THEIR TO
THEIR SUPPORTERS.
AND ALSO I ACTUALLY THINK THAT
THIS WILL LIKELY MAKE THE
PROBLEM OF DARK MONEY WORSE
BECAUSE WHEN SOME OF THE SAME
OUT OF TOWN LANDLORDS
BANKROLLING THESE PROPOSALS
WANT TO FUND THEIR FAVORITE
ANTI HOUSING CANDIDATE, THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO GIVE FIFTY DOLLARS
AND CALL IT A DAY.
THEY'RE GOING TO FORM SOME DARK
MONEY PACK AND CONTINUE TO FUND
THEIR ELECTIONS ACCOUNTS
EMBRAER, THANK YOU AND THANK
YOU FOR COVERING SO MUCH GROUND
ALREADY COUNCIL MEMBERS WERE
DENHA AND SONG I'M GOING TO
CONTINUE IN THIS THEME BECAUSE
WE HEARD A LOT OF FALSEHOODS IN
OUR PUBLIC COMMENT AND FRANKLY
OUR VOTERS AND RESIDENTS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY ARE BEING
PEPPERED WITH FALSE CLAIMS ON
SOCIAL MEDIA AND WEB ADS FROM
THE PROPONENTS OF PROPOSALS TO
THE AND AND IT'S NECESSARY TO
CALL THESE OUT AND CORRECT THE
RECORD.
FIRST OF ALL, THEY CALL THESE
METION MEASURES PROGRESSIVE.
I'M HERE TO TELL YOU THERE'S
NOTHING PROGRESSIVE ABOUT
UNDERMINING THE MOST DIVERSE
CITY COUNCIL IN ANN HARBOR
HISTORY AND WE ACTUALLY SAW
RECENTLY FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER
ELIZABETH NELSON RIGHT ON HER
BLOG THAT THE DIVERSITY ON
COUNCIL THAT YOU SEE HERE IS
JUST LOOKS AND
THAT THESE
COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE CONTROLLED
BY THE MAYOR.
THAT'S NOT PROGRESSIVE.
THAT'S RACIST PLAIN AND SIMPLE.
>> PROPONENTS SAY THESE
MEASURES WILL INCREASE VOTER
PARTICIPATION.
I EVEN SAW A CAMPAIGN VIDEO
THAT CLAIMS PEOPLE CAN'T VOTE
IN AUGUST.
WE KNOW THAT'S FALSE.
WE HAVE NO REASON ABSENTEE
BALLOTS ANYONE CAN VOTE IN THE
AUGUST PRIMARIES EVEN IF
THEY'RE OUT OF TOWN, IF THEY
ARE MOTIVATED TO DO SO, THEY
COMPLAIN THERE'S NO OPPOSITION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE ON
THE NOVEMBER BALLOT BUT THERE'S
NOTHING STOPPING REPUBLICAN
FROM RUNNING.
I ALSO QUESTION WHY PEOPLE WHO
CLAIM THEY'RE DEMOCRATS ARE
UPSET THAT THE WINNERS OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARIES AREN'T
FACING CHALLENGERS IN THE IN
THE NOVEMBER ELECTION FROM
REPUBLICANS TO ME THAT'S THAT'S
THAT'S JUST PLAIN WEIRD.
PROPONENTS ALSO SAY THAT NINETY
NINE PERCENT OF MUNICIPALITIES
WE HEARD THIS TONIGHT IN
MICHIGAN HAVE NONPARTISAN
ELECTIONS THAT IS PATENTLY
FALSE.
TOWNSHIPS AND COUNTIES IN
MICHIGAN ARE MUNICIPALITIES AND
THEY HAVE PARTIZAN ELECTIONS
AND THOSE CITIES WITH
NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS STILL
HAVE A PRIMARY.
SO THIS PROPOSAL IS WILDLY
DIFFERENT.
IT TURNS IT ELIMINATES THE
PRIMARY AND TURNS OUR ELECTIONS
AS COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA ALREADY
STATED INTO IN NOVEMBER A FREE
FOR ALL WHERE YOU COULD HAVE A
NUMBER OF CANDIDATES RUNNING
AND SOMEBODY WINS WITH A SMALL
PERCENTAGE VOTE AND DOESN'T
REPRESENT THE MAJORITY
OF VOTERS.
THAT IS WHY BOTH OF THESE MAJOR
PROPOSAL IS JUST ILLEGAL.
SO THAT'S WHY THE MAJORITY
OF THESE WE HAVE A HUGE
COALITION THAT'S OPPOSING BOTH
MEASURES INCLUDING LIEUTENANT
GOVERNOR GARLAND GILCHRIST,
JOCELYN BENSON, GOVERNOR
GRETCHEN WHITMER PAC IS
SUPPORTING THE NO CAMPAIGN
CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL,
THE LOCAL NAACP AND THE LEAGUE
OF WOMEN VOTERS WHICH REALLY
OPINES ON LOCAL ISSUES LIKE
THIS.
>> GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER GOSIA.
THANK YOU.
MAYOR.
FIRSTLY, YOU KNOW, I REALLY I
WANT TO THANK KATHLEEN MOSADDEQ
FOR COMING HERE ON BEHALF
OF THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES NOT ONLY HAVE YOU
CONTINUE TO CONTRIBUTE
IMMENSELY TO THE COMMISSION BUT
THIS ISSUE THAT YOU'RE RAISING
OF INACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
AT CITY HALL IS UNACCEPTABLE
AND I'M SORRY THAT YOU HAD TO
EXPERIENCE THAT AND IT'S
SOMETHING THAT I COMMIT TO
CONTINUE WORKING ON WITH OUR
ACCESSIBILITY COORDINATOR TRACY
BIRD AND THE CITY AND I'LL KEEP
YOU UPDATED.
I WANT TO MAKE SOME COMMENTS
ABOUT PROPOSAL C AND D BECAUSE
IT HAS BEEN WROUGHT WITH JUST
SO MUCH MISINFORMATION.
YOU KNOW, THE ONLY I WANT US TO
BE AWARE THAT THE ONLY OTHER
TIME THAT THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
HAS CHANGED VOTING RULES WAS
AFTER WE ELECTED OUR FIRST AND
ONLY BLACK MAYOR ALBERT WHEELER
AS COUNCIL MEMBER JANAYA SHARED
WE ARE THE MOST DIVERSE CITY
COUNCIL IN OUR CITY'S HISTORY
AND YOU YOU CAN SHAKE YOUR HEAD
AS MUCH AS YOU WANT.
IT'S NOT JUST DIVERSITY.
IT LOOKS.
BUT THE WAY I LOOK HAS ALSO
BROUGHT ME DIVERSE LIVED
EXPERIENCE THAT INFORMS
POLICIES WHICH YOU WILL NOT
HAVE BASED UPON YOUR LIVED
EXPERIENCE.
>> THAT'S THE BOTTOM LINE.
I ALSO WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THAT
WHEN WE GET READ RESEARCH SHOWS
THAT WHEN WE GET RID
OF PARTIZAN ELECTIONS DIVERSITY
DECREASES IN TERMS OF PEOPLE IN
POWER, PEOPLE WHO RECEIVE POWER
BASED UPON ETHNIC OR RACIAL
DIVERSITY.
THAT'S LIMITED BECAUSE PEOPLE
LIKE ME HAVE DIFFERENT SOUNDING
NAMES.
ASSUMPTIONS ARE MADE ABOUT MY
POLITICAL BELIEFS AND MY VALUES
.
YOU KNOW IT'S ONE THING TO
SUPPORT NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS
BUT THE WAY THAT YOU ALL
MISCHARACTERIZE US AS BEING
FUNDED BY BIG MONEY IS PATHETIC
AND IT'S UNTRUE.
I'M THE SINGLE DONOR IN MY
FAMILY.
I HAVE TWO YOUNG KIDS AND I
WORK TWO JOBS.
PLEASE SHOW ME FINANCIAL PROOF
FOR THE NEXT TIME YOU WANT TO
CALL ME FUNDED BY BIG MONEY OR
PART OF THE ELITE IN ANN ARBOR.
THANKS COUNTS NO BRITISH THANK
YOU.
I WANT TO MAKE TWO POINTS.
ONE IS I WANT TO INVITE
EVERYONE TO THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY ON WEDNESDAY.
THERE WILL BE A DAY LONG
ROUGHLY AFTERNOON LONG FROM
NOON TO SEVEN SESSION ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
I THINK PEOPLE STILL HAVE A LOT
THAT THEY WANT TO SAY AND
FEEDBACK THAT THEY WANT TO
OFFER.
>> SO PLEASE JOIN US THERE.
THERE WILL BE STAFF
PRESENTATIONS AT I THINK TWELVE
THIRTY AND SIX.
I KNOW SIX FOR SURE.
>> TWELVE THIRTY MIGHT ALSO BE
ACTUALLY NOON.
SORRY AND SINCE YOU MENTIONED
MAYOR WHEELER COUNCIL MEMBER
GARTSIDE ONE I JUST WANT TO
MAKE THE POINT THAT REELERS
ELECTION WAS FACILITATED BY THE
FIRST AND ONLY USE OF RANK
CHOICE VOTING THAT WHEELER HAD
RUN BEFORE AND THAT THE LEFT
SPLIT THE MAJORITY LEFT VOTE
AND SO REPUBLICAN MAYORS
CONTINUED WERE ABLE TO BEAT OUT
THE LEFT AND SO IT WAS NOT
UNTIL YANAGAWA WAS ABLE TO USE
RANK CHOICE VOTING WHERE PEOPLE
COULD WHERE WHERE CANDIDATES
COULD ESSENTIALLY EFFECTIVELY
BUILD COALITIONS DURING THE
ELECTORAL PROCESS AND THE
CANDIDATE RUNS BIDDING FOR IT
TO BE THE FIRST PREFERENCE
OF SOME LIKELY SUPPORTERS IN
THE SECOND PREFERENCE OF THE
REST.
AND YOU ADD THOSE BOTH UP AND
YOU END UP WITH A MAJORITY WIN
THAT REFLECTS THE MAJORITY TRUE
MAJORITY SUPPORT IN THE
COMMUNITY THROUGH MAJORITY
OPINION IN THE COMMUNITY RATHER
HAVING THE MAJORITY SPLIT
ITSELF DOWN THE MIDDLE SO WE
LEGALIZE IT, WE PUT IT WE PUT
IT TO YOU VOTERS AND YOU SAID
THAT YOU WANT MY CHOICE VOTING
IN ANN ARBOR AND I HOPE THE
STATE LETS US USE IT BECAUSE
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY THAT THIS
NONPARTIZAN ELECTORAL PROPOSAL
WILL MAKE ANY SENSE CURRENTLY
IT TRULY DOES NOT.
IT BRINGS BACK THE KIND
OF POLITICS THAT WE SAW WHEELER
LEAD TO NEEDING TO OVERCOME
THIRTY FORTY WHATEVER IT WAS
NINETEEN SEVENTY FIVE YEARS AGO
COUNCIL BRACKMAN HEY WHO ELSE
IS READY FOR NOVEMBER 6TH ON A
DIFFERENT TOPIC I WANTED TO
DRAW MY COUNCIL COLLEAGUES AS
WELL AS PEOPLE WHO ARE WATCHING
THIS MEETING ATTENTION TO A
REPORT THAT WAS ATTACHED TO OUR
AGENDA TODAY AND THAT'S A PHASE
TWO STUDY FROM THE NONPROFIT
MINNEAPOLIS BASED ARTSPACE.
THIS IS A PHASE TWO FEASIBILITY
STUDY ON BUILDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND IT HIGHLIGHTED THE
NEED FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR
THE CREATIVE COMMUNITY AND
OUTLINED SOME RECOMMENDATIONS
OF NEXT STEPS THAT THE CITY
COULD TAKE AS WELL SOME INTERIM
STEPS BECAUSE THE ULTIMATE STEP
IS TO BE ABLE TO BUILD HOUSING.
I THINK A LOT OF US THAT HAVE
LIVED HERE FOR ANY LENGTH
OF TIME NO FRIENDS WHO WORK IN
CREATIVE PURSUITS OFTEN THERE
ALSO GIG WORKERS INCREASINGLY
THEY CAN'T LIVE HERE WITH WITH
A LOT OF OTHER PEOPLE AND
THEY'RE IMPORTANT TO THE FABRIC
OF OUR COMMUNITY ALONG WITH
OTHER PEOPLE WHO ARE GETTING
PUSHED OUT.
>> SO SOME EXAMPLES OF SOME
INTERIM PIECES THAT THE CITY
CAN TAKE IS CREATING A PROCESS
THAT'S DESIGNED TO PAIR
ARTISTIC COMMUNITY WITH
EXISTING AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
AND SO THE CITY IS LOOKING TO
PARTNER WITH OUR SPACE ON
PROJECTS THAT ARE ALREADY BEING
CONSIDERED BY THE CITY AS WELL
AS THE ANAPRA HOUSING
COMMISSION.
THE DUNBAR TOWER IS ONE SUCH
PROJECT AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
ENGAGING WITH MY COLLEAGUES ON
THIS BODY AS WELL AS THE CITY
IN MOVING US FORWARD TO THE
NEXT PHASE OF WHAT AN ART SPACE
PROJECT MIGHT LOOK LIKE.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL,
THANK YOU.
I WAS GOING TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
DA'S PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS
AND JUST TO CLARIFY MY
COLLEAGUE'S COMMENTS, THE
PRESENTATIONS WILL BE AT TWELVE
THIRTY AND SIX P.M. BUT THE
EVENT DOES GO FROM ELEVEN TO
SEVEN IF YOU WANT TO MEET WITH
DDA REPRESENTATIVES AND LEARN
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH YOUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS.
I MENTIONED THIS AT THE LAST
MEETING BUT IT BEARS REPEATING
THAT SUNDAY OCTOBER TWENTY
SEVENTH IS HALLOWEEN DOWNTOWN.
PUT YOUR COSTUMES ON MEET AT
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY AT ELEVEN
THIRTY A.M. THERE WILL BE TRICK
OR TREATING FROM 12 FIFTEEN TO
ONE THIRTY PM DOWNTOWN.
PLEASE LOOK FOR FESTIVE
BALLOONS OUTSIDE OF DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS OWNERS DOORS TO
NOWHERE TO STOP.
I KNOW A LOT OF US INCLUDING
THE ART CENTER ARE ALSO GIVING
OUT FOR FOLKS WHO HAVE FOOD
ALLERGIES OR CONCERNS.
WE ARE DOING CRAFTS AND CRAYONS
AND LOTS OF THINGS SO PLEASE
DON'T LET THAT STOP YOU FROM
ONE THIRTY TO THREE P.M. ON
SUNDAY ARE SPECTACULAR
ACTIVITIES ON MAIN STREET WITH
GREAT FUN AND EXCITEMENT HAS
BEEN PROMISED TO AWAIT EVERYONE
.
AND SO FOR MY PART AND COMMENTS
AROUND PROPOSALS I KNOW THAT
THERE WERE COMMENTS FROM MY
COLLEAGUES ABOUT HOW DIVERSITY
IS BEING DOWNPLAYED AND HINTS
OF RACISM OBVIOUSLY I ALSO WANT
TO POINT OUT AS A WOMAN AND A
MOSTLY FEMALE GOVERNING BODY
WHICH IS REALLY AMAZING AND
UNIQUE IN OUR COUNTRY THAT
BEING ACCUSED OF BEING
CONTROLLED BY AN OLDER WHITE
GUY IS KIND OF SEXIST TO YOU.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PERSPECTIVES
OF BACKGROUNDS SITTING HERE OR
WHEN ASKING FOR YOUR VOTE WE
PROMISED TO WORK ON ISSUES THAT
MATTER MOST TO OUR COMMUNITY
AND THAT'S WHAT WON OUR
ELECTIONS.
WE MADE PROMISES THE COMMUNITY
WANTED US TO KEEP.
SO FROM HOUSING, TRANSPORTATION
,CLIMATE POLICY WE'RE MOVING
PROGRESSIVE POLICIES FORWARD.
WE'RE INCREASING HOUSING AT ALL
LEVELS OR PURSUING CLEAN ENERGY
AGENDA THAT IS REALLY
UNPARALLELED IN OUR CITY'S
HISTORY.
AND I CAN UNDERSTAND THAT KIND
OF CHANGE IS SCARY TO THOSE WHO
ARE COMFORTABLE WITH THE STATUS
QUO WHERE RENTAL HOUSING IS
HARD TO FIND AND EXPENSIVE AND
WHERE OUR CARS ON OUR ROADS
TRUMP A SENSE OF COMMUNITY IN
OUR DOWNTOWN NEIGHBORHOOD, IN
OUR DOWNTOWN AND IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT HERE'S THE THING WORLD
HOUSING CANDIDATES HAVE WON THE
TWO LAST ELECTION CYCLES
.
LANDLORDS DON'T LIKE THIS AND
THEY'RE FUNDING THESE TERRIBLE
PROPOSALS.
>> IF YOU'RE A DEMOCRAT IN ANN
ARBOR, EVERY OFFICE HOLDER YOU
VOTED FOR WHO'S ONE FROM THE
TOP OF THE BALLOT TO THE BOTTOM
AGAINST THESE PROPOSALS?
THE NAACP IS AGAINST THEM THE
LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS, THE
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS AND FOR MY
PART I AM PROUD TO ALIGN THESE
LEADERS VERSUS CAMPUS LANDLORDS
AND CANDIDATES WHO RESOUNDINGLY
VOTED OUT OF OFFICE DUE TO THE
DISCONNECT BETWEEN THEIR VALUES
AND THOSE OF OUR NEIGHBORS.
>> AND I'M GOING TO KEEP
FIGHTING FOR AND PURSUING THE
AGENDA THAT I GOT ELECTED TO
SIT HERE AND WORK ON AND I'M
REALLY PROUD TO SIT ALONGSIDE
MY COLLEAGUES AND PURSUE AND
ADVANCE THOSE CAUSES THAT
MATTER.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO ANNOUNCE THE
ELK COMMUNITY FUN DAY WHICH IS
THE NEIGHBORHOOD COMMUNITY
EVENT THAT WILL BE THIS COMING
SUNDAY ON OCTOBER TWENTY
SEVENTH FROM TWO TO SIX THIRTY
PM THIS IS SPONSORED BY THE
L.A. AREA COMMUNITY FOUNDATION
AND AS A PART OF THE ANN ARBOR
BICENTENNIAL LEGACY PROJECT,
THE ELKS LODGE LOOKS TO ENSURE
THEIR CONNECTION TO THE CITY
CONTINUES TO GROW FOR YEARS TO
COME.
>> SO THE THEME OF THIS EVENT
IS THREATENING COMMUNITY SOUL
WITH NEIGHBORHOOD LOVE FOR A
BETTER ANN ARBOR.
>> IT'S WANT TO SHARE A LITTLE
A LITTLE STORY I GUESS NOT SO
MUCH A STORY BUT WANT TO SHARE
SOMETHING WITH YOU ALL THIS
DOES RELATE TO PROPOSAL C AND D
IN EARLY TWENTY TWENTY WHEN THE
COUNCIL MEETINGS WAS DURING THE
PANDEMIC IN THE COUNCIL
MEETINGS WERE ON ZOOME I WAS I
WAS WATCHING AND ONE OF THE
FIRST THINGS I NOTICED WAS THAT
NOBODY SITTING IN THOSE SQUARES
NOT ONE PERSON ON CITY COUNCIL
LOOKED LIKE ME AND QUITE
FRANKLY AS A BLACK WOMAN WHO
WAS BORN AND RAISED IN THIS
TOWN I'VE NEVER LEFT I'VE NEVER
LIVED ANYWHERE ELSE.
I WAS OFFENDED BY THAT.
>> I KNEW THAT THERE WAS NO ONE
SITTING ON CITY COUNCIL THAT
COULD REPRESENT REALLY MY
PERSPECTIVE AND SO I THOUGHT
ABOUT IT AT THE TIME MAYBE ONE
DAY I'LL RUN FOR CITY COUNCIL.
>> I DIDN'T KNOW IT WAS GOING
TO BE TWENTY TWO I THOUGHT
MAYBE LATER BUT I DID AND I AM
HERE TO TELL YOU IF YOU DO
BEALEFELD FOLLOWED MY WORK.
EVERYTHING I'VE DONE ON CITY
COUNCIL HAS RELATED TO MY LIVED
EXPERIENCE AND THE LIVED
EXPERIENCE OF THREE GENERATIONS
OF MY FAMILY, MY PARENTS,
MYSELF AND MY CHILDREN AND I'M
HERE TO DISRUPT THE STATUS QUO
AND THOSE WHO KNOW ME KNOW THAT
I WILL CONTINUE TO DISRUPT THE
STATUS QUO AND SO WHEN I HEAR
SOMEONE REFERENCING THAT
DIVERSITY IN REFERENCING LOOKS
THAT'S HIGHLY OFFENSIVE AND
QUITE FRANKLY RACIST BECAUSE
WHAT I'VE I WILL SPEAK FOR
MYSELF WHAT I'VE DONE ON CITY
COUNCIL IT'S A BLACK WOMAN IS
NOT JUST SHOWN UP HERE IN MY
BRAIDS AND MY YOU EARRINGS, MY
BIG EARRINGS, MY ETHNIC LOOKING
EARRINGS IT'S WHAT I'VE DONE ON
CITY COUNCIL.
IT'S THE DRIVING EQUALITY
ORDINANCE.
IT IS PROVIDING FUNDING TO
INDIVIDUALS THAT HAVE AN
OVERPOLICED AND ARE JUST AS
IMPACTED TO HELP THEM WITH
HOUSING TRAUMA WRAPAROUND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO PROVIDE
TRAUMA, WRAPAROUND SUPPORT
TRAUMA INFORMED WRAPAROUND
SERVICES.
SO THAT'S WHAT I HAVE TO SAY
ABOUT PROPOSAL C D OR THE
RHETORIC AROUND THOSE TWO
PROPOSALS AND THAT'S ABOUT IT
FOR NOW.
THANKS
I WOULD SAY FOR THE
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL BUT I
THINK EVERYONE'S ALREADY SPOKEN
WELL IT'S A LOT THAT'S BEEN
SAID ABOUT PROPOSALS C AND D
I'VE SAID A FAIR BIT IN PUBLIC
AND ELSEWHERE AND SO I THINK
I'LL JUST REST ON THOSE
COMMENTS BUT MERELY SAY I THINK
THE COMMENTARY THAT FOLKS HAVE
HEARD HERE TODAY FROM THE TABLE
IS AS POWERFUL, HEARTFELT, WELL
REASONED AND DEEPLY, DEEPLY
TRUE.
YOU KNOW, IT'S THE IT'S THE
KIND OF WISDOM AND TEMPERANCE
IN THE FACE OF CALUMNY THAT
THAT ANY OLDISH WHITE GUY WOULD
BE PROUD TO SIT WITH.
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
ERIC SECHER AND KATE FALLOWING
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CONSENT
AGENDA A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONCEPT AGENDA MOVE
BY COUNCILMAN RAWORTH AND
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA.
>> COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN, I DON'T
NEED TO PULL THIS FOR
DISCUSSION BUT I DID WANT TO
THANK STAFF AND THE DEVELOPER
FOR WORKING TODAY ON AMENDING
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THAT
IS ATTACHED THAT WAS UPDATED
JUST A COUPLE HOURS BEFORE OUR
MEETING AND BASICALLY WHAT IT
DOES IS INCLUDE LANGUAGE THAT
THE DEVELOPER WILL AGREE TO
MAINTAIN SAFE NOT IN A
MOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION ROUTES
SOUTH TO UNIVERSITY TO THE
GREATEST EXTENT PRACTICABLE
DURING CONSTRUCTION.
AND I'M NOT SURE HOW OFTEN YOU
ALL TRAVEL DOWN WILLIAM, BUT IF
YOU REMEMBER COUNCIL PASSED A
SIMILAR AMENDMENT THAT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO KEEP
THE WILLIAM STREET BIKEWAY OPEN
AS WAS PRACTICAL AND LAST WEEK
CONSTITUENTS CONTACTED ME
BECAUSE THERE WAS STATE IT WAS
BLOCKED BUT THERE WERE SAFETY
TAPE ON ONE BUT NOT THE OTHER.
SO IT CREATED NOT ONLY WAS
BLOCKED BUT IT CREATED A
DANGEROUS SITUATION WHERE YOU
DIDN'T KNOW IT SHOULDN'T BE
TRAVELED ON UNTIL YOU GOT TO
THE OTHER SIDE DEPENDING WHAT
DIRECTION YOU WERE COMING IN.
I ALERTED STAFF TO THAT AND
WITHIN DAYS THERE WAS ONE
OF THOSE FANCY THINGS THAT YOU
SEE IN A REAL CITY WHERE THERE
WAS LIKE A WOODEN STRUCTURE
ACROSS THE BIKEWAY SO THAT
PEOPLE CAN STILL SAFELY.
SO WE'RE NOT ASKING THAT THAT
CONDITIONS BE UNSAFE BUT THAT
TO THE DEGREE THAT IS IS
PRACTICABLE AND MAINTAINED SAFE
THAT WE CAN HAVE ROOTS AS
THERE'S CONSTRUCTION GOING ON
BECAUSE WE KNOW THERE'S QUITE A
BIT OF IT.
>> SO THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN.
VERY SIMILARLY I DON'T WANT TO
PULL THIS I JUST WANT TO MAKE A
QUICK COMMENT ON C FIVE WHICH
IS THE RESOLUTION TO REVISE AND
AMEND THE LIST OF APPROVED
PARTICIPATING ESTABLISHMENTS IN
THE DOWNTOWN BIOSOCIAL
DISTRICT.
THE SOCIAL DISTRICT WAS
EXPANDED AS YOU KNOW, TO
ENCOMPASS BOTH MAIN STREET AND
STATE STREET AND EXPANDED THAT
AREA WHERE PEOPLE CAN LEAVE
ESTABLISHMENT WITH AN APPROVED
CONTAINER OF BEVERAGE OF YOUR
CHOICE AND I'M REALLY PLEASED
TO REPORT BACK THAT THAT IS
BEING MET WITH GREAT ENTHUSIASM
FROM OUR DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES
WHO ARE BENEFITING FROM IT.
SO WHEN WE BEMOAN YOU OH NOBODY
COMES DOWNTOWN OR OH IT'S NOT
BUSY OR WHATEVER THAT'S JUST
NOT TRUE.
DOWNTOWN IS VIBRANT.
IT IS BUSTLING.
WE'RE DOING EVERYTHING THAT WE
CAN TO SUPPORT THESE BUSINESSES
AND LISTENING TO THEM AND IT'S
WORKING BY EVIDENCE OF THIS
LIST BEING EXPANDED AND SO I'M
APPRECIATIVE OF THE SUPPORT FOR
THOSE BUSINESSES.
THEY ARE TELLING US THAT IT
MAKES A BIG DIFFERENCE AND IS
REALLY HELPFUL FOR THEM AS THEY
CONTINUE TO RECOVER POST
PANDEMIC FURTHER DISCUSSION
CONSIDER CASIMIRA DENHA.
THANKS.
I WILL ALSO JUST BRIEFLY
MENTION ABOUT K4 FOR WHICH IS
ANOTHER ONE OF THE LIQUOR
LICENSES THAT WE ARE
RECOMMENDING MOVING FORWARD
FROM THE LIQUOR LICENSE REVIEW
COMMITTEE THERE IS A NEW THAI
RESTAURANT OPENING HOPING TO
OPEN UP ON MAIN STREET IN THE
OLD CUCINA SPACE THAT WILL BE
OPEN LATE FOR FOOD AND DRINKS
AND THEN WILL REMAIN OPEN EARLY
INTO THE MORNING HOURS IF THAI
FOOD AT THREE A.M. OR FOUR A.M.
IS WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR.
AND SO WE LOOK FORWARD TO
SEEING THEM MOVE FORWARD AND
HOPEFULLY WE WILL HAVE ANOTHER
THRIVING BUSINESS ON OUR MAIN
STREET SOON SOURSOP.
>> I JUST WANT TO BE TO SEE
THREE ON LOW INCOME EMERGENCY
ASSISTANCE CONTRACTS.
I SPOKE WITH ONE OF THE PROGRAM
MANAGERS AT CANNES OVER THE
WEEKEND AND SHE WAS TELLING ME
HOW THEY'RE RUNNING OUT OF FOOD
AT THE FOOD PANTRY AND HOW
THEIR FAMILIES ARE TAKING TO
BUSSES IN ORDER TO COME AND GET
FOOD.
WE WE ARE WE ARE COMMUNITY WITH
EXTREME NEEDS THAT STILL EXIST.
AND IF YOU'RE UNFAMILIAR THERE
BUSTERS I WOULD TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT YOUR WATER BILL.
YOU HAVE THE OPTION OF ACTUALLY
CONTRIBUTING ADDITIONAL MONEYS
TO THIS FUND.
SO MANY THANKS TO RESIDENTS WHO
TACK ON THAT EXTRA FIVE DOLLARS
.
IT MEANS A LOT TO THIS TO OTHER
SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCY WORKERS
AND ALSO NOTE THAT OFTEN THIS
FUND ALL THE FUNDS ARE USED UP
BEFORE THE END OF THE FISCAL
YEAR BUT THAT STILL MAKES AN
IMPACT ESPECIALLY BEFORE OUR
WARMING SHELTERS ARE OPEN.
SO THIS WORK THIS FUNDING IS
TIMELY AND I CAN'T THANK
EVERYONE ENOUGH FOR DOING THIS
WORK FURTHER DISCUSSION BECAUSE
OF AGENDA ON FAVOR OPPOSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL IN THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING ONE NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO HERE AT HOME PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
CLERK OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING FOUR POINT FIVE
ONE ACRES OF TDP TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT TO R-1 BE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT VEW
PROPERTY FOUR FOUR FOR
HUNTINGTON PLACE.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC
HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING THERE?
I SEE NO ONE ON LINE WITH THEIR
HAND RAISED SEE NO IN THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO TO AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING OF POINT ZERO
FIVE ACRES FROM TDP TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT TO R-1 BE SINGLE
FAMILY DISTRICT BRICKS OR
PROPERTY ONE ONE ZERO ALL THE
WAY.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
IS OR ANYONE ONLINE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NO ENDING
IN FOR ONE ONE YOU MAY ON MEET
YOUR PHONE.
HELLO CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN.
THANK YOU MR. MAYOR.
THIS IS GOING TO WAR.
I LIVE IN THE THIRD WARD THE
CITY OVER AND OVER ALTHOUGH I
WORKED ON THE OPEN AREA PLAN A
LONG TIME AGO WHEN I LIVED IN
THE CITY FOR VERY FAMILIAR WITH
THIS PROPERTY IN THE NEXT
NORRIS BEFORE IT WAS NOT
PARTICULARLY DRASTIC AND I
THINK I THINK THE I DON'T THINK
IF YOU APPROVE THIS BUT JUST TO
REAL REASON WHY I'M CALLING OUT
IS THAT THIS IS PROBABLY THE
ONLY OPPORTUNITY YOU ESCORPION
ARE ONLY ABLE TO HEAR WHAT'S
GOING ON WITH THIS PROPERTY ARE
COMING DOWN AND THE FACT THAT
WHATEVER IS BEING PROPOSED WILL
BE A PYRATES DEVELOPMENT IN
WHICH OUR COUNCIL MEMBERS WILL
NOT BE ABLE TO PROBABLY WEIGH
IN ON THIS FOR A REPRESENTATIVE
ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION, THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HAS BEEN
TOLD IT IS THINKING OF REMOVING
PUBLIC HEARINGS AS WELL MAKE
EVERYTHING DONE
ADMINISTRATIVELY.
I HOPE THAT'S NOT THE CASE
BECAUSE THIS IS SUCH A
PROBLEMATIC SITE.
THIS OVERLOOKS THE VALLEY OF OF
HURON RIVER.
THERE HAVE BEEN SIGHTINGS
OF ENDANGERED SPECIES ON THE
SITE.
THERE ARE TRANSPORTATION ISSUES
THAT BE ASSOCIATED WITH EVERY
NEW DEVELOPMENT COMES IN A WORD
WITH OUR B OR WHETHER IT COMES
OUT THAT PEOPLE HAVE HEARING
THAT WE SHALL SEE.
BUT AT ANY RATE THIS IS GOING
TO BE SOMETHING OF GREAT
SIGNIFICANCE AND THAT'S ON THE
LAST UNDEVELOPED PARCEL OF THE
TOWN.
I THINK A GREAT NUMBER PEOPLE
WOULD BE INTERESTED IN WHAT
YOU'RE GOING TO SAY AND DO
WHAT'S MOVING FORWARD.
I REALIZE THERE'S A LOT
OF DISCUSSION EARLIER ABOUT
PEOPLE VOICES NOT BEING HEARD.
I THINK WHEN IT REALLY COMES
DOWN TO IT I THINK THAT'S
DRIVING THE POLITICS BEHIND ALL
OF IT IS THAT PEOPLE FEEL THAT
THEY ARE BEING HEARD AND ARE
MANY ISSUES AND I WOULD SAY
THAT CONSTITUENCY HAS YOUR
COUNCIL RIGHT NOW.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED WITH
MORE THAN AT ANY RATE MY
THOUGHTS GOING IN IN TERMS
OF THE PROPOSALS BEFORE YOU
THIS EVENING AND WITH THAT I
BID YOU GOOD EVENING.
>> THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I SEE NO ONE ELSE ON THE LINE.
OH, ONE MOMENT CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN SIX
MONEY YOU MAY SPEAK
.
HI I AM THIS IS MICHELLE.
YOU'VE BEEN CALLING IN BECAUSE
THIS IS WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
ANNEXING A NEW PARCEL AS OUR
ONE B AND THAT SEEMS LIKE I
THOUGHT WE HAD HAD AND WE WERE
SETTING A NEW DIRECTION OR WE
WEREN'T GOING TO HAVE AND
WEREN'T GOING TO BE ANNEXING
THINGS WITH SUCH WITH SUCH LOW
DENSITY ZONING CHARACTERISTICS.
AND I WAS HOPING YOU MIGHT
CONSIDER ANNEXING THIS WITH A
HIGHER DENSITY ZONING ZONING
DISTRICT LIKE YOU KNOW, OUR ONE
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT OR ONE
DENHA AT LEAST AS HAS HAPPENED
IN MOST OF THE PREVIOUS RECENT
ANNEXATION.
OK, THANK YOU.
BYE.
THANK YOU
.
>> ADAM GOODMAN.
YOU CAN MEET YOUR PHONE THIS
RIGHT.
THIS IS ADAM GOODMAN SPEAKING
TO YOU FROM BEFORE.
I KIND OF WANT TO ECHO THE
SENTIMENTS THAT MICHELLE HUGHES
JUST EXPRESSED.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THE LAST
PUBLIC HEARING WAS JUST ABOUT A
SINGLE PARCEL THAT THIS IS
QUITE A LARGE AREA OF LAND AND
YOU KNOW, THIS IS GOING TO
BASICALLY BE THE DEFINING VOTE
ABOUT WHAT GETS DONE OR A LOT
OF PEOPLE WERE UPSET PREVIOUSLY
ABOUT THE CONCRETIZE
DEVELOPMENT WHICH IS, YOU KNOW,
A RELATIVELY LOW DENSITY LUXURY
SINGLE FAMILY DEVELOPMENT ON
THE NORTHEAST SIDE OF TOWN ON A
GREENFIELD SITE.
BUT THERE WASN'T REALLY
ANYTHING THAT COULD BE DONE TO
STOP IT OR TO PUSH THAT
DEVELOPER IN A DIFFERENT
DIRECTION BECAUSE WHAT THEY DID
WAS COMPLIANT WITH WITH THE
EXISTING ZONING.
BUT THIS PARCEL HAS NO EXISTING
ZONING.
YOU GET TO DECIDE WHAT SHOULD
BE DONE WITH THIS PARCEL AND SO
I WOULD ASK THAT YOU ACTUALLY
SERIOUSLY CONSIDER WHETHER
WOULD BE IS THE RIGHT CHOICE
FOR THIS SITE.
THANK YOU
, ADAM.
>> JUST KORVETTES, DID YOU HAVE
COMMENT TO MAKE?
NO, I DIDN'T.
SORRY I JUST SAW THAT YOU HAD
ACCIDENTALLY UNMUTED ME INSTEAD
OF ADAM GOODMAN.
ALL RIGHT.
APOLOGIES
, MAYOR.
I BELIEVE THAT EVERYONE
SEE NO
AND FURTHER THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
THREE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION ONE ONE TWO ZERO HEY
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE CITY SEAL
AND FLAG OF TITLE ONE OF THE
CITY CODE .
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MAYOR, I DON'T SEE ANYONE
SEE
NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO FOR
NORDEN'S TO AMEND A NEW SECTION
PART OF AN ORDINANCE TO ADD A
NEW SECTION NINE ONE FIVE FIVE
THAT ONE OF CHAPTER ONE TWELVE
NONDISCRIMINATION OF TITLE NINE
OF THE CODE CITY BANABA.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
GOOD EVENING MAYOR COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS IAN ROBINSON,
PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR AND WARD
FOUR AND I'D BEEN BEFORE YOU
ONCE BEFORE ON THIS TOPIC BUT
WHEN I SPOKE BEFORE WE HADN'T
HAD AN OPPORTUNITY HERE IN
VALLEY AREA LABOR FEDERATION TO
DISCUSS THIS PROPOSAL AT LENGTH
AND SINCE THAT LAST TIME I CAME
BEFORE YOU WE HAVE HAD THAT
CONVERSATION.
I'M HAPPY TO REPORT THAT WE
HAVE VERY STRONG SUPPORT ON OUR
BODY WHICH REPRESENTS 50 LOCAL
UNIONS ROUGHLY IN OUR AREA.
TWENTY THOUSAND WORKERS AND
THEIR FAMILIES FOR THIS CHANGE
I GAVE YOU SOME REASONS LAST
TIME ABOUT WHY I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT.
OBVIOUSLY IT'S CREATING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR WORKERS WHO
ALREADY FACE CHALLENGES THAT
MOST OF US DON'T FACE.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO INCREASE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THEM BUT I
THINK IT'S ALSO ONE OF THOSE
CASES WHERE EVEN THOUGH IT MAY
CAUSE A LITTLE BIT OF IT, IT
REQUIRES SOME ADDITIONAL WORK
ON THE PART OF EMPLOYERS TO TO
LAUNCH SOMETHING LIKE THIS WITH
THIS WITH THE WAY THAT THIS
PROPOSAL IS WRITTEN THAT IT IT
THE THE PROVISION FOR THE RIGHT
TO SIT MUST NOT INTERFERE WITH
THE PERFORMANCE OF BASIC DUTIES
.
IT REALLY IS GOING TO EXPAND
THE POOL OF WORKERS WHO ARE
AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYERS AT A
TIME WHEN A LOT OF EMPLOYERS
ARE REALLY FINDING IT DIFFICULT
TO TO TO FIND WELL QUALIFIED
EMPLOYEES.
SO I BELIEVE THIS IS A WIN WIN
EVEN THOUGH THE TRANSITION TO
IT MAY BE REQUIRE A LITTLE
ADDITIONAL EFFORT AND MAY WORRY
PEOPLE WHO ARE EMPLOYERS.
I THINK WE HAVE A LONG HISTORY
OF LABOR REFORMS THAT HAVE
HELPED WORKERS WHICH HAVE
PROVEN TO BE A WIN WIN IN
NATURE.
I THINK THIS IS GOING TO BE ONE
OF THEM.
SO I'M VERY GLAD THAT YOU'VE
BROUGHT THIS COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN AND AND THE OTHER
SUPPORTERS AND CO-SPONSORS
OF THIS AND YOU HAVE OUR FULL
SUPPORT AS A LABOR MOVEMENT IN
THIS AREA.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL I'LL BE
BRIEF BUT I WANT TO THANK ALL
THE PRESENTERS PRIOR AND THANK
YOU TO THE LABOR REPRESENTATIVE
PRIOR AS WELL FOR THEIR
SUPPORT.
I JUST WANT TO THANK COUNCIL.
I WANT TO THANK OUR CITY.
I WANT TO THANK OUR BUSINESS
OWNERS AND I WANT TO THANK OUR
RESIDENTS FOR UNDERSTANDING THE
IMPORTANCE OF THIS ONE IN FOUR
AMERICANS IN THE UNITED STATES
DECLARED THAT THEY HAVE SOME
TYPE OF DISABILITY.
SO THIS IS NOT JUST, YOU KNOW,
THE FISCALLY RESPONSIBLE THING
TO DO.
THIS IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO
AND WE ARE CONTINUALLY
OPENING
OURSELVES UP TO BETTER
FINANCIAL GAIN BY MAKING OUR
BUSINESSES MORE ACCESSIBLE BUT
ALSO MAKING SURE THAT EMPLOYERS
AND EMPLOYEES ARE OF IMPORTANCE
THAT THEY ARE THAT THEY HAVE
THAT SENSE OF WELL, WELLBEING
AND GETTING REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATIONS.
FINALLY, JUST TO BE BRIEF, I
WOULD LIKE TO ALSO URGE
BUSINESS OWNERS IF THEY HAVE
RESERVATIONS ABOUT THIS
PARTICULAR SUBJECT MATTER THAT
PLEASE NOTE IT IS NOT ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, THE FINANCES.
IT'S NOT A MATTER OF SPENDING
MONEY.
>> IT IS JUST A MATTER
OF THINKING AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ON MIND I'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING MAYER I SEE NO HANDS
RAISED
SEE NO IN THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER FIVE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION
ONE ONE SEVEN CODE VIOLATION
CITATIONS OF CHAPTER ONE
OF TITLE ONE AND SECTION EIGHT
FOUR FIVE EIGHT OF CHAPTER ONE
ZERO FOR ENERGY AND WATER
BENCHMARKING OF TITLE EIGHT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> THANKS MAYOR TAYLOR.
KEN GARBER SECOND COMPLIANCE
WITH THE CITY'S ENERGY
BENCHMARKING ORDINANCE IS
CRITICAL.
BUILDINGS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
SIXTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE
CITY'S COAL POINT AND SCOPE TO
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND
THE FIRST STEP IN REDUCING
THOSE EMISSIONS IS MEASUREMENT
AND DISCLOSURE.
THIS CAN BE A POWERFUL
MOTIVATOR TO TAKE ACTION.
THE REVISIONS BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT EXPAND THE POOL OF CITY
STAFF EXPLICITLY AUTHORIZED TO
ENFORCE THE ORDINANCE.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY GOOD AND I
SUPPORT IT BUT I APPRECIATE
SOME PERHAPS SOME CONTEXT
AROUND THIS CHANGE THERE IS NO
DISCUSSION AT FIRST READING
VERY LITTLE IN REGISTAR.
IT SUGGESTS THAT THERE'S BEEN
POOR COMPLIANCE ON THE PART
OF BUILDING OWNERS TO DATE
MAYBE COUNCIL STAFF IN YOUR
DISCUSSION CAN ELABORATE ON THE
NATURE AND THE EXTENT OF THESE
PROBLEMS.
HOW MANY BUILDING OWNERS HAVE
SUBMITTED A BENCHMARKING REPORT
AND WHAT PERCENTAGE OF THOSE
REPORTS HAVE INCLUDED THE
PROPER INFORMATION?
HAS THERE BEEN ANY ENFORCEMENT
IN TERMS OF FINES OR LEGAL
ACTION?
ALSO TRANSPARENCY IS A CRITICAL
ELEMENT.
THIS ORDINANCE HAS BEEN IN
EFFECT FOR THREE YEARS.
IT SPECIFIES QUOTE BEGINNING NO
LATER THAN DECEMBER TWENTY
TWENTY TWO AND EVERY YEAR
THEREAFTER THE MANAGER SHALL
MAKE AVAILABLE ON A PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE WEBSITE AN ANNUAL
REPORT ON THE RESULTS OF THE
BENCHMARKING REPORTS RECEIVED
END QUOTE TO MY KNOWLEDGE I
MIGHT BE WRONG BUT I CAN'T FIND
SUCH A REPORT ON THE CITY'S
WEBSITE.
WERE THERE FINALLY BE ONE THIS
YEAR NOW I SYMPATHIZE WITH
STAFF STRUGGLES TO GET BUILDING
OWNERS TO COMPLY.
I'M SURE I KNOW THEY'RE WORKING
HARD ON THIS AND I CAN
APPRECIATE THE OBSTACLES.
PEOPLE RESIST CHANGE BUT WE'RE
ALREADY YOU USUALLY ALSO THE
EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN GOAL FOR
BENCHMARKING IS 90 PERCENT
COMPLIANCE IN THE RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL
SECTORS BY TWENTY TWENTY FIVE.
I'M ASSUMING THAT GOAL WON'T BE
MET OR EVEN APPROACHED.
WHEN DO WE NOW EXPECT TO
ACHIEVE 90 PERCENT COMPLIANCE?
TO SUM UP I SUPPORT THESE
REVISIONS TONIGHT AND THE
ORDINANCE WHICH I THINK IS
EXCELLENT.
MY MAIN QUESTIONS ARE ONE HOW
WELL HAVE OWNERS COMPLIED WITH
THE ORDINANCE TO DATE TO ONE
ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS IF ANY?
HAS THE CITY TAKEN THREE WHEN
WILL THE CITY POST ITS FIRST
ANNUAL REPORT AND FOR WHEN CAN
WE NOW EXPECT TO REACH THE 90
PERCENT COMPLIANCE?
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MAYOR, THERE'S NO ONE CURRENTLY
WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
SEE NO
ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF OCTOBER SEVEN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
COUNCILOR WATSON SECOND BY
COUNCIL OVER A DENHA DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ON FABER POSED.
THEY ARE APPROVED B WANT AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING OF POINT FIVE ONE
ACRES FROM T WP TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT TO R ONE B SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT LU
PROPERTY FOR FOUR FOR
HUNTINGTON PLACE MOVE BY DENHA
SECURITY COUNCIL REDISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B ONE
BRITISH ONE OF THOSE
STRAIGHTFORWARD TOWNSHIP
PARCELS THAT'S BEEN ANNEXED BY
THE OWNER OF THE PARCEL SORRY
REQUESTED IS GOING TO BE
REQUIRED BUT EVEN OWNERS CAN'T
DO THAT.
THEY ASKED FOR AH ONE B SORRY
ARWANI AND PLANNING COMMISSION
DECIDED TO GO WITH OUR ONE B
FOR THIS PARCEL.
IT DOESN'T AFFECT WHAT THE
OWNER CAN DO WITH THEIR PARCEL.
THEY STILL WANT TO BUILD A HOME
AND THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE GOING
TO DO BUT WE ARE ZONING IT A
LITTLE MORE DENSELY THEN THEY
ASKED FOR IT A POINT FIVE ONE
ACRE PARCEL THAT WILL CONNECT
TO CITY UTILITIES, WATER AND
SANITARY SEWER ARE AVAILABLE TO
IT.
PUBLIC STORM SEWER IS NOT AND
THAT IS NOT A PROBLEM BECAUSE
THAT'S ABOUT THE EASIEST THING
YOU CAN DO YOURSELF WITH SWAILS
AND OTHER EXCELLENT ECO
FRIENDLY PROCEDURES.
SO THIS IS STRAIGHTFORWARD AND
THERE'S NO REASON NOT TO VOTE
WHICH IS WHY I'M DOING THAT
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED B TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND IN CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING OF POINT ZERO
FIVE ACRES OF WPE TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT TO R-1 B SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT PRICK'S MORE
PROPERTY ONE ONE ZERO AGAMI WAY
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA WATSON RATHER SECOND BY
COUNCILOR SONG DISCUSSION
PLEASE ALLOW ME TO COUNT SUMMER
DISH YEAH THIS ONE I DO WANT TO
DISCUSS.
I DON'T KNOW IF MR. LEO IS
THERE AND CAN SHOW US THE
PICTURE FROM THE STAFF REPORT
BUT IF THAT IS POSSIBLE I WOULD
BE GREAT.
I THINK THERE MIGHT HAVE BEEN
SOME CONFUSION ABOUT WHAT WE
ARE VOTING ON HERE.
WE ARE NOT VOTING ON SOUTHPOINT
ONE TEN AL-JABRI WAY IS A VERY
SMALL ORPHAN PASSELL ZERO POINT
ZERO FIVE OF AN ACRE IT LOOKS
LIKE A NOTCH IF YOU LOOK IN THE
STAFF REPORT IT HAS A
BIOGRAPHY.
IT WAS CUT OFF FROM ITS PARENT
PASSELL.
THE PARENT NOW LIVES ACROSS
FROM ON THE EAST SIDE OF US
TWENTY THREE AND THE ORPHAN IS
OWNED BY THE OWNER OF BRICS.
MORE OF THE ADJACENT PARCELS
THAT ARE PLANNED AS SOUTH POND
VILLAGE ONCE THEY ARE ANNEXED
IN ZONE NOW THIS LITTLE NOTCH
OF A PARCEL ITSELF IS SO TINY
AS TO BE UNBUILDABLE ONCE ANY
SETBACKS ARE APPLIED IT WILL BE
USED ONLY TO HELP WITH ACCESS
TO THE ADJACENT PARCELS AND I
WANT TO QUOTE THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
YOU SEE THE YELLOW ARROW IS
POINTING TO THE LITTLE PARCEL
WHOSE REZONING WE ARE NOW
ADDRESSING.
I WANT TO QUOTE THE STAFF
REPORT DIRECTLY THIS IS A VERY
UNIQUE SCENARIO CREATED BY THE
CONSTRUCTION OF U.S. TWENTY
THREE.
I WANT TO UNDERSCORE AGAIN THAT
THE THIS LITTLE PARCEL NOTHING
CAN BE BUILT ON THIS LITTLE
PARCEL WHERE WE'RE JUST GIVING
IT A NEW FAMILY SO PLEASE VOTE
YES FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED B THREE
IN ORDER TO AMEND SECTION ONE
ONE TWO ZERO A OF CHAPTER NINE
CITY SEAL AND FLAG OF TITLE ONE
OF THE CITY CODE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL SECOND BY A
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B THREE.
FOR MY PART I'M EXCITED ABOUT
THE PROSPECT OF THE PASSAGE
OF THIS THIS ORDINANCE.
WHAT IT DOES IS IT FINALIZES
THE ADOPTION OF THE THE THE NEW
CITY FLAG A GREAT CITY
OF COURSE DESERVES A GREAT FLAG
AND WE AFTER THE PASSAGE
OF THIS AUDIENCE WILL INDEED
HAVE ONE.
IT'S MY FOND HOPE THAT OVER
TIME THERE WILL BE FLAGS
APLENTY THROUGHOUT THE LAND.
THERE WILL BE LAPTOP STICKERS,
LAPEL PINS, ALL MANNER OF FLAG
RELATED SWAG FOR FOLKS TO TO
EXPRESS THEIR FONDNESS AND
BELONGING IN THE CITY.
>> VANDIVER FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON THEIR POST IT IS APPROVED
BEFORE AN ORDINANCE TO ADD A
NEW SECTION NINE ONE FIVE FIVE
ONE OF CHAPTER ONE TWELVE
NONDISCRIMINATION OF TITLE NINE
OF THE CODE OF THIS EVENT ARE
REMOVED BY COUNCILMAN GARCIA
AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON.
>> DISCUSSION PLEASE OF BEFORE
COUNCILMAN GARCIA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO THANK EVERYONE
WHO'S COME TO SUPPORT THIS THE
HURON VALLEY LABOR FEDERATION
AFL-CIO LOCAL BUSINESSES MAIN
STREET STATE STREET AREA
ASSOCIATION, THE ANN ARBOR
CHAMBER AND OF COURSE MY
COUNCIL COLLEAGUE CO-SPONSORS
FOR THEIR SUPPORT FOR THIS AND
FOR ALL THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
AND I HOPE YOU ALL WILL
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR.
THANK YOU.
AT PREVIOUS MEETINGS WE HEARD
FROM A NUMBER OF PEOPLE
RESIDENTS WHO PERSONALLY HAVE
NEEDED THIS TYPE
OF ACCOMMODATION AND SINCE WE
DIDN'T HAVE ANYONE WHO FIT THAT
BILL NECESSARILY TONIGHT I
THOUGHT I WOULD SHARE JUST A
QUICK ANECDOTE AS THE DAUGHTER
OF SOMEBODY WHO NEEDED THIS
TYPE OF ACCOMMODATION.
I'VE OFTEN SPOKE ABOUT MY
UPBRINGING AS THE DAUGHTER
OF AN ELECTRICIAN AND A NURSE.
BUT WHAT I DON'T OFTEN SAY IS
THAT MY MOTHER'S NURSING CAREER
WAS CUT SHORT BECAUSE SHE SHE
GOT M.S. AND WAS NO LONGER ABLE
TO WORK AS A NURSE.
AND AFTER A FEW YEARS
OF STAYING HOME WITH HER FAMILY
,SHE TOOK A JOB IN RETAIL AND
I REMEMBER THINKING HOW CAN HOW
IS SHE GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO
THIS?
AND I VISITED HER ONE DAY IN
THE SHOP AND I NOTICED THAT
THEY HAD A STOOL FOR HER TO SIT
ON AND I REMEMBER HER PROBABLY
TWELVE OR THIRTEEN.
I JUST REMEMBER FEELING SO
GRATEFUL THAT THEY HAD PROVIDED
THAT ACCOMMODATION FOR HER AND
THAT SHE WAS ABLE TO WORK TO
HELP MAKE SOME MORE MONEY FOR
THE FAMILY AND COME HOME NOT
COMPLETELY WRECKED AND
EXHAUSTED.
>> SO UM YEAH I JUST WOULD
ENCOURAGE BUSINESS OWNERS WHO
ARE THINKING ABOUT THIS WHO ARE
MAYBE THINKING, YOU KNOW, IS
THIS REALLY WORTH IS THIS
REALLY NECESSARY?
YOU KNOW IT GET BENEFITS NOT
JUST THAT PERSON BUT THE PEOPLE
THEY DEPEND UPON TOO.
>> AND I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR.
THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION
ALL
FAVOR OR OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED
B FIVE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE ONCE SEVEN
CODE VIOLATIONS CITATIONS
OF CHAPTER ONE OF TITLE ONE
SECTION EIGHT FOUR FIVE EIGHT
OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FOR ENERGY
AND WATER BENCHMARKING OF TITLE
EIGHT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNEALIOUS BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B
FIVE
ONE FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED B SIX AND AUDIENCE TO
AMEND SECTIONS 5.1 EIGHT FIVE
TO TO FIVE TO NINE AND FIVE
THREE HAPPEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFY THE DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE CODE OF
THE STEPHEN ARBOR HYD
EXCEPTIONS STORMWATER REVIEWS
DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS FINISHED
GRID MOVE BY DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
OF B SIX BRITISH.
>> I'VE SPOKEN BEFORE TO THIS
WHEN IT FIRST CAME UP TO US SO
I'LL JUST REMIND PEOPLE I DON'T
WANT TO GO IN DETAIL HERE THAT
THERE ARE MANY COMPONENTS THAT
WE'RE ADDRESSING HERE.
THE FLOODPLAIN COMPONENT THAT
WAS RAISED EARLIER IS NOT A
COMPONENT TO WHICH WE HAVE MADE
A CHANGE SO I'M NOT GOING TO
TALK ABOUT THAT.
THE MAJOR CHANGE THAT'S MADE
HERE IS THE CHANGE TO
EXCEPTIONS AND WE'RE DOING THAT
BECAUSE THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF THINGS THAT INCREASE THE
HEIGHT OF A BUILDING WITHOUT
PROVIDING ADDITIONAL
INHABITABLE SPACE.
THOSE THINGS INCLUDE ELEVATORS,
ESCALATORS AND STAIRWELLS AND
THE IDEA IS THAT BUILDINGS IN
MIXED USE NONRESIDENTIAL AND
SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING
DISTRICTS CAN HAVE AN
ADDITIONAL TWELVE FEET TO
ACCOMMODATE THOSE USES AND THAT
THAT IS NOT CHARGED AGAINST
THEIR AREA AND SO THAT THEY DO
NOT HAVE TO LOSE HABITABLE
BUILDING SPACE TO ACCOMMODATE
ELEVATORS.
>> WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THAT
BEFORE.
I'M REALLY NOT.
YEAH, THERE'S AN AMENDMENT
REGARDING SITE PLAN APPROVAL
THAT WILL MAKE IT EASIER FOR
PEOPLE TO ADAPT INTERIORS,
REPURPOSE INTERIORS, MAKE IT
LESS EXPENSIVE FOR THEM MORE
QUICKLY TO DO THAT THERE IS NOT
A PLAN TO COMPLETELY ELIMINATE
HEARINGS ON SITE PLANS AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
SO I JUST WANT CLARIFY THAT
THAT WOULD NOT BE FIRST OF ALL
NOT LEGAL AND NOT DESIRABLE.
SO WE'RE NOT DOING THAT FOR
DISCUSSION OF EVER POST IT IS
APPROVED SEE WANT AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION NINE ONE ZERO
THREE OF CHAPTER ONE ONE ONE
FIRE PREVENTION OF TITLE NINE
THE CODE OF THE CITY THAT ARBER
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> I WAS HIRED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C1 COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN THANK YOU.
SO WHAT THIS ORDINANCE CHANGED
IS IT REMOVES FROM OUR CITY
ORDINANCE THE INTERNATIONAL
FIRE CODE REGULATION TO HAVE
TWENTY SIX CLEAR FEET AROUND
BUILDINGS THAT ARE OVER THIRTY
FEET IN SIZE.
THAT'S HOW I UNDERSTAND IT AND
I WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT A FEW
DIFFERENT THINGS IN CASE PEOPLE
ARE WONDERING ARE WE, YOU KNOW,
THROWING FIRE SAFETY OUT THE
WINDOW WHICH I DO NOT THINK WE
ARE INSTEAD I WOULD SUGGEST
THAT THIS IS A THIS IS A
BALANCED APPROACH TO LOOKING AT
SAFETY HOLISTICALLY.
WE KNOW THAT WIDE ROADS ARE
DANGEROUS FOR PEOPLE AND THERE
ARE MANY THINGS WE WANT TO DO
TO OUR ROADS TO MAKE THEM SAFE
FOR EVERYBODY.
TRAFFIC CRASHES ARE A VERY HIGH
COMPONENT OF PEOPLE BEING
INJURED AND KILLED.
>> I ALSO NOTE THAT DESPITE
PUBLIC COMMENTS THIS WAS
PREPARED BY OUR SAFETY SERVICE
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGER AND
REVIEWED BY OUR FIRE CHIEF AND
ALSO ATTACHED SAYS THERE ARE NO
IMPACTS TO CITY OPERATIONS THAT
ARE ANTICIPATED AS A RESULT
FROM THE ADOPTION OF THIS
AMENDMENT.
ALSO, DESPITE BEING CALLED THE
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE , IT
ACTUALLY IN POINT IS NOT
INTERNATIONAL.
IT'S US BASED CODE .
IT DIFFERS FROM OTHER COUNTRIES
AROUND THE WORLD AND OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES HAVE RELAXED
THESE STANDARDS SO THAT RATHER
THAN JUST HEWING TO A STANDARD
THEY'RE LOOKING AT HOW DO WE
CREATE A SITUATION WHERE WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE ACCESS THAT THEY
NEED BUT WE ALSO MAKE THE ROADS
THAT ARE SAFE FOR EVERYONE.
SO WE WOULD BE JOINING THE
RANKS OF PORTLAND AND ALAMEDA
COUNTY ALONG WITH OTHERS THAT
HAVE RELAXED THIS RULE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I THINK WHAT
THIS DOES INSTEAD OF RELYING ON
A STANDARD IT REQUIRES TIGHT
COLLABORATION BETWEEN STAFF TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE ENSURING
THE PROPER FIRE EXITS THAT IS
NEEDED WHILE WE DO WHAT NEEDS
TO BE DONE TO SAVE AN
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR PEOPLE
TRAVELING IN A VARIETY OF WAYS
AND TRUST STAFF TO DO THAT WORK
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE
OPPOSED IS APPROVED.
>> DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TWO FOR TWO ZERO
AND ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTIONS
5.1 EIGHT 5.2 TO 5.2 NINE FIVE
THREE SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE SEVEN ARBER HAD
EXCEPTIONS, FORMAT REVIEWS,
DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS AND
FINISHED GRADE.
IS THERE A DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC ONE ON FAVOR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED
DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO REVISE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
COUNCIL CALENDAR MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF MY COUNCIL
MARKAZI EDWIN DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC
ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED THREE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE CLOSING OF WILLIAM
STREET BETWEEN EAST WILLIAM
STREET AND EAST MADISON STREET
AND EAST JEFFERSON AND MAINARD
STREETS ON FRIDAY
OCTOBER TWENTY FIVE FROM FOUR
THIRTY PM UNTIL SEVEN THIRTY PM
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCILOR WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED MISS COURT WE HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY.
>> YES MA'AM.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST A
CLOSED SESSION UNDER THE
FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX EIGHT
SPECIFIC SECTION EIGHT ONE
EIGHT REGARDING THE PRIVILEGE
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO PROVIDED
COUNSEL ON OCTOBER 17TH 2024
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION ON THAT
BASIS BY COUNSEL MCCONNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER ROLL
CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING WITH
CANCER MORIAH COUNCIL MEMBER
YES COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN YES
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S ABSENT
COUNCIL EVER KORNEL YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH YES COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON YES.
THE COUNCIL MEMBER SONG YES
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER GAZA EDWYN YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
MOTION CARRIES HERE IN CLOSED
SESSION
MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO GO BACK INTO OPEN
SESSION MOVE BY COUNCILOR
ACTING SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
KERNELL DISCUSSION ALL FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCILOR CORNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCILOR ACKMANN
DISCUSSION OF THE
CARBON SUPPORT IN FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR HARRISON SAYS BY
COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR OPPOSED WERE ADJOURNED